CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — CLEANED TRANSCRIPTION
Issue date: June 4, 1835
Weekday: Wednesday (as printed; calendar date fell on Thursday)
Volume: II
Number: 7
Publisher/editor: J. Calhoun
Source PDF pages: 17-20
Printed pages represented: 4
Printed columns per page: 6
Motto: “Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.

TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
Historical spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are retained where legible. OCR readings were independently compared using Apple Vision and Tesseract. [uncertain: ...] indicates a plausible but unresolved reading; [illegible] indicates no supported reading. Source order is page by page, then column 1 through column 6 from left to right.

METADATA NOTE
The masthead literally prints WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 1835. The apparent weekday/date inconsistency has not been silently corrected.

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 1 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 17
==============================================================================
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 7.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 1 ---
Miscellany.
From the Philadelphian.
THE MOTHER'S TEMPTATION.
A TALE OF TRUTH.—BY MRS. H. M. DODGE.
[uncertain: This curved outer column was transcribed directly from an enlarged widened crop and checked against three OCR readings; the damaged final line is explicitly marked.]
The wintry tempest swept awfully majestic o'er the Atlantic, and howled, with its destroying might, through the lonely streets of the city, Boston. Lonely, indeed, were they on that cold and dismal night; for even the midnight reveler feared to venture out—the drunkard hugged with sorrow his nearly empty bottle in his own chimney corner, and it was only at long intervals that some hasty sleigh bells broke in upon the fearful and continued wail of the tempest. The wealthy were seated around their bright, blazing hickory fires, with shutters barred, and curtains closely drawn, indulged in the peculiar pleasure which security from danger and suffering gives to inspire.

Many a happy mother watched with joyful eye the little innocent group, gambolling on the rich carpet before her, and smiled as they gathered in silence around her, because the increasing storm beat, at times, more furiously against their dwelling, and startled them with its dreadful roar. Then, perchance, would she tell them tales about the benighted traveler, who was frozen by the way side, or the shipwrecked mariner, tossed among the billows, and at length thrown upon some bleak and barren shore, to perish with cold and hunger.

Thus it was in the abodes of the rich, but who shall enter the dwellings of the poor, to see what is passing there? The weeping mother is dividing her last sorrowful pittance among her meagre and shivering children; the father is in his grave, or stretched on a bed of sickness or intemperance; an infant, but newly weaned from the breast, is nibbling at a dry crust, or reaching forth its little hands for a morsel to satisfy the fierce cravings of nature, while its thin and tattered clothing poorly protects it from the searching wind which has entrance at many a crevice, and drifts the snow even about the desolate apartment!

Such was the sad, but faithful picture of many a family scene in Boston, on that cold and stormy night; and such, oh ye wealthy, is the picture which ye might look upon, even in our own beloved Philadelphia, if ye would but go to the abodes of poverty!

The limits of this article will not permit me to tell you what I have witnessed, or what scenes of wretchedness are now existing around us; but when on a cold winter's night my dear little family are gathered around me, the red coals sending forth their steady and enlivening heat, and every heart filled with ease and comfort, and especially when the bowl of warm, rich nourishment, is raised to the lips of my happy infant, enveloped in its soft night gown, oh, then have the woes and sufferings of the poor came like a cloud cast over my soul! The wretched mother with her moaning half famished babes in her arms, has risen up before my imagination like a spectre of woe, until I have wept in a frenzy agony of grief; and although my heart went forth in gratitude to God for my happier lot, still the cheerful comforts around me lost their charms at the recollection of the sorrows of the destitute.

But to return to our subject. In Boston, on the cold night before described, a poor widow and her orphan babes watched with deep concern the gathering storm, and listened with increasing dismay to its pelting against their shattered casement. They had seen better days, but the death of their common protector, which was accelerated by intemperance, left them utterly penniless. The exertions of a lone mother could scarcely be expected to supply the wants of four small children.—Still they had subsisted without beggary until this winter, which will long be remembered for its unusual severity. That night she had divided her last morsel among her little ones, reserving not a crumb for herself, and had laid the last stick upon the fire: now that stick was nearly consumed, and every gust of wind seemed to send a fresh chill through the dreary apartment. The clothing of this unhappy family was scarcely sufficient for a summer day, and the mother feared to put her children into their wretched beds, lest they should literally freeze before morning. With tearful eyes she looked around her, and darkness and doubt came over her spirit.—Why did divine Providence make such an unequal distribution of the goods of this world to mankind? Why must she and her children perish with want, while so many around them were rolling in ease and luxury? She had trusted in the Lord for many years, and always found him faithful to his promise; and now would he forsake her in her greatest need?

While she was thus ruminating, a thought suddenly crossed her mind, and brought with it a sort of sad comfort. The back yard of a wealthy neighbor joined her own, and a loose board would easily admit her. This yard contained a wood house well stored with fuel; and now she thus reasoned with herself: “Is it right for me to see my children perish with cold when there is plenty of fuel so near! My neighbor, though wealthy, was never known to assist the poor, and should I go to ask him he would no doubt deny me.—But do not the laws of nature teach me to preserve the lives of my own offspring, and even Heaven itself condemn an act of suicide?” While thus she struggled with conscience to believe the will of Heaven, she hurried to the wood house, but there hesitated. How could she do a deed which she had always held in abhorrence! But the image of her freezing children rose up before her, and snatching her arms full from the pile, she turned to depart; suddenly the blackness of the act rushed over her soul, and she exclaimed, “Lord, is it come to this!—a thief, a midnight plunderer! I cannot—oh, I cannot;” and flinging down the wood, she turned about. Still, however, the thought of her suffering family returned with its horrid picture; she again approached the pile and had nearly raised the burden, when she again exclaimed, “Lord, is it come to this!—have I fallen so low! I cannot, I cannot.” [uncertain: The final line is damaged at the column break; the action continues in the next printed column.]

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 2 ---
nd, and filling, distractedly, her arms
ime, she made an effort to run, and fo
at she was duing ; but the power:
and religious principle was so stron
cr soul, that she could not hush i
and yielding to its salutary influence
ng a third time the precious burde
er arms ag though it had been a poiso
and turning, she exclaimed, in th
ess of a breaking heart, “I cannot—
: ob, God, preserve me from tempts
and. hurrying to her home, she flun
on her kuees and entreated her M:
giveness,
ppened that. the owner of the woo
‘ag0 physiciun, waa returning frot
; a patient who wae dangerously ill
sing near his wood house, he heard
nd stept into a dark corner to see whn
ing on, He wns greatly astonishe
he recognized his neighbor; but hi
az greatly softened by what he sas
ard; and he said to himself, “O
ad man that Lam, thus to let the poo
ated when J have such an abundance.’
d bis arms with wood, and sought th
dow's door, She opened it, and hov
heart throb when he beheld th
winees within! The poor woma
d exceedingly when this unexpacte
yalked into her apartment, and fun;
then upon the hearth, “Fear not,
, observing her trepidation ;.""I hay
acknowledge my fault, and ask you
ess as [have already done my heay
ther’s, ‘Thean ten years pret I hay:
to Jove the Lord Jesus, but have
“d to feed, or clothe, or minister in al
unto his dear disciples, 1 have
after my own gain, and forgotten th
f the poor; I have been an unfaithtn
,and have usurped the goods of m)
Go to my woodgile so jong: na win:
, and when you lack for food, go free
y cellar,”
viduw'’s heart was. too full for reply
ing her eyes to heaven, while he
‘tears declared the joy and grotilude
onl she exclaimed, “ Oh, blessed Lord
the forever that they hast. not only
y dear children from death, but hast
iivered my soul from doubting, temp-
nid crime,”
delphi, Jan. 6th, 1835.

Sexsc or Hoxog.—The_ first man
ned negociationa between Pratce and
1 patriots was the unfortunate Jack-
p was afterwards betrayed by Cack-
epy of the British government, and
‘d friend of Jackson, While Dr.
was prepsring for his trial, and hie
sn was almost certain, a friend was
1 to his room in prison, and remained
business ull as late hour at night.
‘tor conducted him to the outside door
maton, expecting there to. find the
ady to turn the key. The key was
sor, and the jailer in a profound sleep,
r intoxicated. His escape was now
wn power, He first looked at his
nen at the jailer, with an intense gaze.
me agitated and pale, After a pause
ment, he eaid, “No, I will not abuse
' fellow’s confidence in me!”—Fe turn-
ey, opened the door, resisted the ad-
118 fiiend. closed. the door after him,
he jailer, and ratired to hig cell. Yet,
ing convicted, he took arsenic, and fell
the dock insensible, while the lord
tice was pronouncing the sentence of

as Andis Emmet and nineteen others,
sof state, were imprisoned three years
George, in the county of Nairn, in the
)part of Scotland, on Murray Frith.
uart, AD invalid officer, who had serv-
d, commanded at the Fort during the
esidence of the Jrich patriots at that
Ife told them on their arrival that
re gentleme.d, and ag such he should
2m. When the prisoners wished to
nd the Fort, and requested permismon,
ver waa always the same You go,
‘ondition, your parol of honor ; 1 take
onsthility, ond place my cbaracter for
n your hands.” The prisoners wish-
thein thesea, French and American
sere constantly at anchor on, or hov-
zy the covet, and when once on the
ey could easily have escaped, Gov,
old them the consequence of his grant-
request, should any complaint reach
moment. But (sad he) go; I trust
honor.” Such incidents are enno-
human nature. Where wap the pris-
o would have escaped? “ Ag soon,”
2 Pennie, * would we have commit-
ue,

ATY oF THB Jnisu.—On one of the
circuits, in Ireland, Mr. Emmet was
to detend one of the United Irishmen
s indictet for treason. He en
vn where his client was confined, and
ver hin case, The prisenoe said hiv
consisted in the weaknexe of the pro-
1; and that he should be acquitted,
the govern:nent could produce no tes-
ageinet him, He said ho wae guilty
but, it could not be proved, “ But,
. Einmet, “ surely the United Irishmen
warter of the country are familiar with
1 nets of your treagon+ how do you
at you are not betrayed 1" ‘The pris-
jied, “God forbid that such a suspi-
uld cross your mind, Jf United Irish.
to prove treacherous, my life ia in the
forty thousand men! Yes, Mr. Em-
8 day, forty thousand witnesses know
ave committed treason ; bul, mark
-my life ig safe.” The trisl ensued
prisoner was restored to his family
his country.

rRiMoNy:—"Habit, and a long lif
r, are (nost necessary to happioest
en to love than iv generally imagined
: in happy with the object of bis st
nt until he has passed many days, an
all, many years of misfortune. Th
 pair must know each other to-th
of their soula; the mnysterious ve

[illegible]

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 3 ---
CAGO, LLL, WwW EDRNE

oh TASS en enianiimmaaoas

how closely soever it may be ke
the rest of the. world.-~What ! aoe
of a fit of caprice, or a burst of passion, avy
 to be exposed to the fear of losing m ¥
and children, and to renounce the ko 2
passing my. declining days with them? I
no one imagine that fear will make me
come a hetter husband. No; wedo not lo
a property which we are in danger of losin
We must not give to Hymen the wings
love, nor make a sacred reality a fleeti
phantom. One thing alone is sufficient
destroy your happiness in such trausient w
ions: you will constantly compare the one
the other, the wife you have lost to the or
you have gained, and do not deceive you
self, the ballance will always incline to 1
ast, for so God has constructed the hum:
eat. This distinction of sentiment whic
should be indivisible, will empoison all o1
joys) When you caress your new-born it
fant, you will think of the smiles of th
one you have lost; when you preds yor
wife to your bosom, your heart will tell ya
she is not the first. Every thing in ina
tends to Unity ; he is no longer happy whe
he is divided, and like God who made hi
in his image, his soul seeks incessantly 1
concentrate into one point, the past, the pres
ent and the future.—- Chataubriond.

Ergryity.—Eternity! the only them
that confuses, humbles, and alarms the prou
intellect of man. What is it? The human:
mind can grasp any defined time, howeve

vast but this is beyond time and too grea

for the limited conception of man. It ha
 beginning, and can have no end. © It canno
be multiplied, it cannot be added unto, yor
‘May atlempt to subtract from it but it is use:
less. Take millions and millions of year:
(rom it, take all the time that can enter int:
the compass of your imagination, 1t is stil
whole and undiminished as before—all cal-
culation is lost. Think on; the brain be-
comes heated and oppressed with a sensatior
too powerful for it to bear, and reason totter
in her seat, and you rise with the convictior
of the impossibility of the creature attempt-
ing to fathom. the Creator; humiliated with
the sense of your own nothingness, and im:
pressed with the tremendous majesty of the
Deity.

Earx Garmes.—Some thirty or forty
years since, there lived in the ‘Heart of thu
Commonwealth” a notorious character by the
name and style of “Crazy Grimes,” famili-
arly called *Eaph Grimes,” whose vole study
and delight was muchiel. One day Eaph
took it into his hea? to disturh the Court o!
Justice, towards which he harbored a deadly
enmity, for having ona former occasion,
 his ears to be cropped on the pillory;
and with this view, mounting his horse with
boots and spurs, and pressing the latter into
the sides of his steed, rode him furiously into
Court, then sitting on the ground floor of the
old Court House, driving the court, bar and
jury, from their peaceful seats, and ‘filling the
house with terror and consternation-~the ti:
der all the while leaning back on his saddle,
and apparently reining in his horse with all
his might, cried out, “wo, wo, wo, you head-
strong, lawless devil, Dll see that justice is
done you, if I can ever get you out of this
couit howse."——Lynn Record,

A bachelor who was sometimes stricken
with years, had been for some time enam:-
ored with one of the maiden sisterhood, bu
could not muster courage enough to ‘pop the
question.” One morning he was resolved te
make the attempt. He accordingly wept t
the house, knocked at the door, and his love.
ly Dulcinea made her appearance. Alter
matual nod the following laconic dinlogut
ensued: ‘Do you want to change you
condition ?? "No." ‘Nor I neither.” And tur:
ning about, our bachelor concluded the con-
versation with, ‘Thank heaven! Dye got the
load off my stomach.’

Pat and the Priest.—One of the tribe o
travelling missionaries meeting a jolly Irish:
man on the font path near the Hudson cana
asked Pat where he was going, “Why,”
replied he, “1 am going to Buffalo.” "Ok
no,” said the missionary, you are going t
perdition—-heaven has commissioned me te
tell you so.” “Ah, my good fellow ; anc
where are ye a going? 9 Why, Lam callec
to a neighbouring village to take up a con:
tribution,” ‘Oh no ye sint—ye’re not co:
ing to any village at all, for I am commis.
sioned to tell ye that ye’re going into thal
canal,” and suiting the action‘to the word
Pat knocked the good man into the canal.

*. Most of our readers ramember the fable o
the oldman with bis ass, who, by trying. t
lease every body, pleased nobody, and los
bis asainto the bargain. It is ao with polit
icians. ‘Those who try to please both re:
formers and anti-reformers both aristocrat
and democrats, will please no one, and los
the object they have in view P. Times.

Anecdote.—-Ap individual named Manx
met an insane person, and said ‘I am a double
man; » Mann by pame, and a man by na
ture.” ‘The insane person wittily replied
J am your equal;  at a mao beside my
self, and swe two will fight you two.”

A Whi rays “drowning me
grill catch at a Wwe? roe. shough—-be
the Whigs find it extremely difficult to fin
wan atraws to catch at, although their head

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 4 ---
HINTS TO YOUNG FARMERS.
' Consider your calling the most elevat
: and the most Important: but never be abe

it, nor be afraid of the frock and the apron

Put off no business which ought and
be done to-day, until to-morrow.

_ As s00n a3 the spring opens and the fra
iy oat of the ground, put your fences in o
er.

Plant no more ground than you can we
manure and cultivate to advantage.

Never hire aman to doa piece of swoi
which you can do yourself,

Keep no more stock than you can keep i
Good order, and that of the best kind.

Never run into debt without a reasonab
probability of solving it at the time agreed.

Never carry your notea in your packet
book, as the tes or trunk is 4 more appre
priate place,

Keep them on file and in order, teady t
be found when wanted.
. Never buy anything al an auction becaus
the article is going cheap, unless you have
use for it.

Keep a place for your tools—and you
tools in order.

Instead of spending a rainy cay at th
dram shop, as many do to their ruin, repai
whatever wants mending—post vour books

Should you be fond of the chase, or th
sport with the hook, indulge occasionaliy, hu
never to the injury of more important con
cerns.

By driving your business befure you, ani
not premitting your business to drive you
you will have opportunities to indulge in in
nocent diversions.

Tuomas Jerrerson’s Opinton oF Fan:
mERs.—' Those who labor in the earth,” he
ent declared, ‘are the chosen people o!
Gou, if ever he had a chosen people, whose
breasts he has made his peculiar depomt for
substantial and genuine virtue. — It is the fo-
baetes which be keeps alive that sacred fire,
which otherwise might escape from the face
of the earth Corruption of morals in the
mass of cultivators, is a phenomenon of
which no age or nation has found ay exam-
pe. It is the mark set on those, who not
ooking up to heaven, but their own soil and
industry, as does the husbandman, for their
subsistance, depend for it on the casualties
and caprice of customers. Dependence be-
gets subservience and venalty, autfocates the
germ of virtue; and prepares fit tools for the
designs of ambition. This, the natural pro-
gress and consequence of the arts, has some-
times, perhaps, been retarded by sccidental
cireumatances, but, generally speaking, the
Proportion, which the aggregate of the other
cizens bears, in any State, to that of its
unsovnd to its healthy parts, and. is a good
enough barometer. whereby to measure ite
degree of corruption.”

New-Yorr, April 23.

Was there ever sucha time as at present?
Every thing is dear but money. Land,—
no matter where or what-—is bought up at
extravagant prices, as if the limita of the
country had already become too contracted
for its inhabitants. Even Texas is not too
distant for the range of speculation to wander.
Stocks, goods, groceries, and almost every
thing else, partake of the general impulse.
What is the cause of all this? It is the resac-
tion consequent upon the stagnation of busi-
neasa year ago. It is one extreme folluw-
ing another, and perhaps preparing the way
for a repetition of the first. Every body: is
rushing into engagements, as if they could
be cancelled by a stroke of the pen. The
Banks deal out fieely, the U.. S. Bank tak-
ing the lead, and allowing herself to become
deeply indebted to the local institutions.
What wi bs the issue of all this? i ass
ing and still increasing prosperity will be the
wie. “We hope so, and ig try to believe
it. But really we are not without some mis-
givings on the subject. If the panic-mak-
ere of 1833-—~4 would exercise their voca-
tion a little. at the present moment, we are
not sure but they would do the community a
service. Certainly the range of speculation
needs rather to be checked than fomented.—
Journal of Commerce.
" Nile’s Register of Baltimore ssys—-We
hope that the people will not run * wild,” for
the prestot season of prosperity must, in its
course, give way to a season of adversity.
More business. hes been transacted in our
cities this spring than ever before was known,
except just-after the last war, which caused
a mighty “smashing.” Every thing ison
the high pressuro. principle just now, in the
east and the weat, the north and the south,
anda collapse must take place. :

Deatn oy 4. rrcon.—Some time since
James Owens was convicted at Hamilton,
‘Upper Canada, of the murder of a man by
the name of Foran, and was to have expiated
‘his offence on the gallows, during the present
‘month; but for some cause, not known to us
the Executive saw fit to remit the execution
of the sevtence, and commuted the punish-
ment for an abandonment of the Province.
Whea this order = fecured by the vel
it was communica’ the prisoner. There
wasn provision in the pardon, that he should
give bail for the performance on bis part, to
move, and never to return. He insisted
on an immediate and unconstitutional release;
and on the jailor’s remonatratiog with him,
he became frantic, and violently assaulted
‘both ca thay oe
[illegible]

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 5 ---
<n SN OO TET ASST
to'such a degree that it was with great dif
culty that the chains could be fastened on 
»J limbs, and when that was effected, he'le

j timself upon his pallet, and’ was instantly

1

im. Ady.

corpee.—N. Y.

. The editor of the U.S. Gazette mys-
 We know of no class: of aspiring citizer

whuse elevation causes less eavy thao th
 promotion of ballooniate.”?

 American Silver.—Tea sets, spoons, fork

vegetable and game dishes, and many othe
  atticles of domestic use, usually made,
jfeal silver, are now manufsetared in Ne
 York, which is called American, in. contra
distinction to German silver. The allo
consists essentially of copper, zine, and nicke
to the latter of which it owes its color, hard
ness, and some other essential properties
Manufactures of this kind can of course.
afforded much cheaper than those of genuin
silver. Pedlars who amnog other untion
vend “genuine silver spoons,” to our coun
uy matrons, will speculate dn those to grea
advantages. The Professor of Chemistry
iat Weat Point, states that veasela male o
this composition may be used in cookery
without injury.

A Bull jigh! with Steam—A few day:
since, as the locomotive steam engine wa
passing along the Columbia Rail-Road, the
engineer espied a noble bull diving acros
the field, apparently to give battle to. the
machine. He was coming at the top of hi:
speed, his tail stuck right into the air, anc
his head down, ay if for immediate attack
As the bull erract rushed onward, the direct:
or checked the car, and received the blow
upon the front wheel. ‘The animal recoiled
seveal steps—the puffing of the steam pipe
seemed to challenge bim to a second onset,
and on he came bellowing and tearing up the
earth, while his eyes seemed to shoot forth
baneful fire. ‘The engineer thought that
his safety consisted in moving-—he therefore
put on the whole head of the accumulated
ateam, and the car, started lile the wood.
‘The enraged beasts truck short of his aim, he
missed his footing, and rolled down a high
embarkment, to the inGnite gratification of
these who had watched hia behavior and to
ihe glory of the engineer.-— Phil. U. 8. Ga-
sella,

Tur U.S. Sexat.—We copy the sub-
joined paragraph from the Journal of Com-
merce, to show that even according to the
calculation of a whig paper, the character of
the United States Senate is redeemed, and
that the democracy preponderate in the body.
[From the Journal of Commerce.]
‘The political complexion of the 241b Cun-
gress will be as follows: 
“Whig. Jackson.
Maine, 2
New Hatopshire, 2
Massachusetts, 2
Rhode Island, 2
Connecticut, ?

Vermont,

New-York, 2
New Jersey, 1 1
Pennsylvania, a
Delaware, 2

Maryland, 2

Virginia, a

N. Carolina, 1 1
8, Carolina, 2

Georgia, 
Kentucky, a

‘Tennessee, 2:
Ohio, 1 1
Indiana, 1 1
Illinois, 2
Louisiana, 1 1
Alabama, 3
Missouri, 3
Mississippi, 1 1

— se

24 a

Tt will be seen that we have included in
this table the three members to be elected
from Reode Island, Mississippi and Tenncs-
see, W have done so, because their politi-
cal character can he predicted almost to a
cathinly, With these exceptions-the Sen-
ale is full. : He

We.have classed Mr. of Hendricks, of In-
diana thee ts gett pt Bess Carolicia,
with th ige, t ir political char-
acter, ely that of Mr. Hendricks,
has been in dispute ever since their election.
Mr. Moore, we have classed with the Jack-
son men, because.in his: printed: sddrem to
the people of Alabama he expressly declares
himaell to be so. : zn

We make, then, with the casting vote of
the Vice President, (and possibly without)
a bare. majority. of Jackson men in the Senate
and will’ probably be increased by the
instruction that will be given to. the
Senators from Virginia hy ee Leg
lature of that State-—from which .will result
either a resignation, or a- conformity. to the
repabicngen ae views. of ae people of

irginia are such in regard to. the doctrine 
of Gaerne that one ar the other of theas:
alternatives will be unavoidable.

hae been liviog for four yearn as a: lady's
maid with 9 female of rank in the vicinity
of Pigcadilly. The.denouucement arcae from

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 17, COLUMN 6 ---
Travelling through P-ansylcania.«=Pasean*
y  TEKS Are now conveyed the whiole distance ber
jj tween Pittshurgh and Philadelphia; in a little
 more than four days, by a new mode of trans.

portation, departing trom this city, they take
the rail road to. Culumbia, and thence embark
in. handsomely firnished canal boste, which
they only leave’ at the mountains, crossin,
thance in the rail road care, and at the woatern
termination, resuming. the canal boate, “and!
procerdnag without’ farther interruption to
Pitteburgh, © The mesle are taken on the
boats, and the nights spent. in. comfortable
beds, while the boat is in progress,

Fellow Citizens of the Counties of Jo Dae
viess, Rock Island, Peoria, Fatnam, La
Salle, and Cook, by
The appointment of Recaiver of Public

Monies, at Galena, with which. have res

cently been favored, neceasarily vacates my

seat in the Senate of our State Legislature.

In dissolving the political connexion that

has subsisted between ua, suffer me. to reiter-

ate my mncere acknowledgments, for the
popular honors with which,through: the agen-
ey of your partiality, I have heen ‘iaveated.

Aad, gentlemen, whatever may be: your

opinion touching the acts of the last session,

it will ever be to me the source of some

ride that  was honored with a seat in that

legislature. ‘Those selfish and sectinuval pres
 judices, which hitherto have furnished sub:
Jecta of severe animadversion, seemed, dure
ing the late winter, to have been merged in
considerations of state pride; and, should.
jeither of our more important efforts prove
‘inopperative, rely upon it the failure, with
Breater propriety, should be attributed to the
officious interference of certain sraTE puNC-
TIONAMIES,~ than to the circumacribed views
of the members taemeelven.

To every patriotic citizen, anxious to wit-
ness the developement of the resources of
our state, and ready to facilitate her. ascen-
sion to that exalted destiny which evidently
awaits hez—the proposed conatruction of the
Michigan and Tinos canal fornishes maiter
of absorbing ‘interest. That you, who feel
wo directly interested in ‘tha consummation of
this measure, may be possessed of correct
information touching ita progress through the
late legislature, 1 propose to give a succinet.
history ut the means by whieh the preseot
canal law was accomplished You. will re-=
collect that the Canal Bill, in its original as-
pect, and as it virtually ‘passed the Senate,

ledged the faith of the State for two mil-

fone of doliara, with which to construct that
important work. While the chrirman of the
committee on internal improvements was en-
gaged iv framing this Bill, and in preparip 4
the report that accompanied it (Forquer’s
Report), some of the committee were ad-
vised: of Goveraor Duncan’s opposition ‘to
their favorite“ plan—but, with his Tniagu
before them, they felt unwilling to. credit a
report that would place him in the ridiculous
attitude of exerting the influence of his sta.
ion to destroy the ONLY feature in his
ning Message. Besides their knowledge’
f the growing consequence of our state,
beir conviction that, in the estimation of our
isters, the position of cur on Lllinois. would’
greatly depend on the character of her works
of internal improvement, and their deep so-
icitude for the adoption of their own plan xe
he must effective, aa well as most certain to
swaken action at home, and interest abroad—,
sil combined to render the ca indiepo- »
ved to anticipate opposition from any. qoarter’
where iatelligedcd be Presnined mdnlle~
Heoce you may . readily imaging our aston-
ara at finciog ‘that bis Tescelleney not
only avowed open opposition to. our plan, but
sctually had become. the ane father of a
Bill, which was placed im the bands of an
Hon. Senator, to be oflared aa a substitute
fos the ona. then uader consideration. His
Bill proposed the canal lands as the sole and
only warranice for the reimbursement of the
requisite loan-—dillesiog materially irom ours
a in this important particular. lam not
‘pated to vay that Governor Duncan and
i Bill influenced the action of the aforessi¢
Senator. Yet, notwithstanding he is a rep-
resentative of -Morgs hiph county fronte
erested:in the: con

o submutto smendinents nes under:
mood ta. accommodate its provisions: to: the
wishes of those who. were a a pledg~
ng the faith of the state... It 20 happened. _
owever, these amendmente did not: effect”

I this feet discovered  uatil the. ret
te Bil te the Senna, aad hs

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 2 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 18
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 1 ---
honora cages demane
sof the canal) felt no disposition (9) Journal,
firmness, or suspect the filelity, of
ose’ prolessions of suppart had al- _ Cana
eived the altestations of their works:  Cann ios
y therefore were not the least arous- ke tha
prevailing impression that the Sen- ie he :
hext morning, would be favored erates
solution from the House, requesting  vant, a
sof the Bill. In the mean times Hine yoy
ity were gratified with a re-consil-  nrincipl
f the vote; and the question now  Were
on concurring with the House in  boundin
.ndments. At this critical juncture,  gseroe
wnas,'Urom Morgan) who had vo- paar peed
us io every xtage of this measure, . ee
e. desertion still farnishes matter of  oie ar
.L. sptculation, proposed ao amend- up civil
ich, in effect, would accommodate  in ite w
Hleney, and, at the same time, salis-  practic:
who were aitverse to involeing the  the min
S the State. Vis colleague (Mr from be
ave. indications of following in his 'Y id
4 the loss of the two was more than [OD af
to defeat the. Bill. However, 3 (4). jaat
froin the House announced the artl-  perused
e contemplated resalution, and the  previon
nt was withdrawn. Seeing, now, [resort 
at waa. inevitable, it was deemed  the sal:
sable to encounter the surrender in ic feel
er Hlouse—consequently, the Bill very
arded gonformably to their requesty) \ ot,
: amendments gave to. it the form io . ourge
is now presented, as one of the LaW8 Jay aces
nd. of polit
y became necessary that the Govern-  dians, t
enate should appoint five Canal Com:  power:
rs. Accordingly, the nomination of  be tad
Board was. submitted, and_not- mi ne
ding they. all entertained the politi- [oa ratio
is aml prejudices of his Excellency,  ion w,
of the whole number was rejected.  iI) he
uch’ aa no recess apprintment could  ment t
: in this instance, because there was deed, -
ney, it.was confidently expected ana-

and lo
nination would be submitted. It was found
vever, until after a committee had al
on his. Excellency, and advised him
~ Legislature was. about to adjourn,  povin,
eived, for reply, that he had no fur-

not,
mmmunications to. make, that our ex- Great
ns were realised. The Chairman of  every
mitlee, upon communicating the ana- are pa
given above, told me privately, that  States
vernor -expressed his regret that any
tion had been presented—at the same
ematking, that it was his design to Doi
Legislature together next winter— Ne
the. commissioners could as. well be Q ane
ed; and [in seeming justification of .)
ures) further remorked, that it would  jiake
thts season to make the necessary  chins
ations, &c. By permismon of the  Ve
Sanator,: who gave this intelligence, [ Th
the facts. to the Senate, and, in my  As.
did remark, withsome severity, on the Gove
nding course of, the Governor, touching  1
ater... From some cause unknown fo ),
isopiniona, about this time, underwent
len revolution, and. the. reception of ling hi
ecutive Message announced the nom- “TT
of Capt. Lion as commissioner and  the ci
er of the canal board, .. This nomina-  imu
as confirmed—and so ended the Canal
, with the business of Legislation. dana ¢
ve, Fellow. Citizens, been thus. parti- cone
3. reciting the jocidents which consti- (ther
e history of the cana
ured, that the great majority of my to an:
are ignorant of the embarrasamentsc'og '
re presented at every stage of this  head
e; and my apology for alluding so ¥ould
arly to the course of Governor Dun-  ch
ay be found in the fact, that the citi.
the North of Illinois do’ generally,
his Message ag the index to his feal-
onsider. that his:energies were made,
ate in favor of the loan principle, on
a‘leat possible security.
weaunptive evidence that his support
canal law, even in its present webili-
et, was the mere result‘of a cate-
circumstances. ‘which he DARE not
vail, it:in’ obly necessary to alluce to '° ®
tory. movements since the adjournment The!
Legislature, which, by-the-bye, should :
ered more especially culpable; be.  CM"
he assurance of Col. Mather, (whose
is above the reach of imputation
uring his late visit tothe east,
a depatation from the Governor, have
od: the funds without difficulty; and in
> have had the work, in progress, under J
it: management, some time since.*.
ept, Gentlemen, assurances of the
reapect of 4
obedient servant, 
SJAMES -W. STEPHENSON.
ran be no apo ove: ‘
ithe has: ont ay sre ca i :
ifthe mone

all int

mm his own part is: herewith implied,
the competency of the security: nar, dicai
rion of Col. . Mather, (whate- ”

al
siege
Brest

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 2 ---
sli is eleer that the people-of the  28M
will never be content with a coukee  ope.
4; present purened towards them by and co
se country. It iw natural, that living  This is
Jo, in. the immediate vicinity of 4) there i
1uder aw republican furm of govern:  its cou
 fonrishing beyond exampie ander

nent, that republican doctrines and  The
should become ripe among then.  passed
nada an isolated country, or one  Bills o
upon a district under a monarchial
nt, the present role of the mother) p,.,
would probably be regarded as mild  nay b
ntal, and Bo it iw compared with that Hatt
sad Ireland. Bat the people of Ca-) Batt
not content with a moderate share) Bait
freedom, ‘They see. political liberty  Amori
lost sense among us, and they see Its vat
y benefical effects. They like not Tea

ns of power sent to rule over tem Bart
ond the seas, and they are trembling- army 
o any act of oppression or ustirpstion  yyy
rt of their rulers. At present, they] Bat
st without a government. During] - tat
winter the provincial parliament mel) Hur
applies, and adjourned, Daring the 17, 17°
year the governer was cainpalled to] Batt
y the military chest for funds to pay Be
ies of the public functionaries, Pub- at
win Canada demands & popular go- Cor
1, anda popular government wil put  yg
» the power of Great Britain over her! (gy,
American ‘colonies’ A temporising’ Bay
n the part of the mother country, an‘

ional concession, may put oif the day s
al equality demanded by the Cana-_ * H
tiv surely will come, and with it, the [18th 
Great Britain over the Canadns will  coast
Intely nathing. Opposition on the  gels,
British government if pashed too far  lent,
long will lead to revolution, and a Be-  the co
from the mother country and conces- catior
 produce such n state of things that it loor 
if iittle wervice to the British govern.  [OOF
retuin posession of the Canadas, In- It
a believe that if the account of profit
were qow fairly cast up, it would be been
nat Great. Britain is for from being a  readi
y her possession of the Canadas. Be j sure,
it may, the Canadas must be literally

ons we are, or they will not remain] — ©,
8 of Great. Britain. If we mistake  pelop
» wisest of the living statesmen of thirty
Britain bare confessed, that there is ri
rabability befare a great many years
ed, that the government of the United i few
will be atretched over the far and fer-
ntry which now forms its northern
yom VEY. Timea.

at New Orleans-The Legiglature
+ Orleans have enacted that a poll tox
lollar per head on every cabin passen-
d fifty centa on every dack or steerage
yer that shall arrive at that place by.
or steamboata, shall be collected.——-
Wrleans Ree,
above bill, passed the legislature, but
toed, as it should have been, by the
ior, What ever disposition may have
nae or wae intended to have been
vith the money had the bill hecome a
e principle was a bad one. and predne-
incalculagle evil. Gov, White, in giv-
reasons for vetoing the bill says,
? Federal Constitution guarantees to
zena of each State the privileges and  at:.y,
ties of citizenn of the several States, chan
n we impose such discriminating bur- differ
 those who choose to come among us? poser
constitution, no State ean without the ” A,
-of Congresa, lay any impost or dutios,  Fury
han for executing its inspection laws,
duty of tonage. Now, iffit were left
individual State ae its pleasure, to
is intercourse b- a tax ‘of one dollar a
» all. persons arriving from without, it
he equally free to pash the principle
ther, even to a total. prohibition of
course whatever.”

There is a newspaper war raging at
ter between Professor Sim and Doct.
, the former a Lecturer on Phreno-
nd the latter an unbeliaver in: the sei- ,
The controversy grew out of a hoax
off upee the Professor, by the Ductor,
Juced some respectible young men to
edup in Jail.and, submit their heads
enolopical examination, as convicts
hrenologist detected all sorts. raseally
upon the heads of these conatractive  “°°
ls. The Doctor, therefore, is likely 

he beat of the controversy. But ihe 
or revenges himself by. insisting that
‘the amateur criminals may yet find
ves in Jail when it will ‘not be so
cht for them to-escape!—Albany E  The

cold weather is a subject of almost un-
remark. Wechave had very fewdaya
son: when fires-were.oot comfortable
ann a apres without,’ If we
t right, Maithias prophesied, about
e of his-trial, that there would be -no i
weather this year, on account -of the!
the people in persecuting him: Some **
mpoater has prophesied that-it: will ‘be ’
‘ sar roay ah beet ‘reason “of
ch Comet. The two ,
s will balance each other. AV, FJ.
wer ce.

most profitable Bal, that we
card ofA gentleman: of this: city, ] ¢
e Gazette, has received # letter’ from
din Mexico which says that Eugene
400 has lately made an ‘assension in Post.
y which yielded him a clear profit of

and that he was making “prepera-
F another ascent by which he e 
rake $20,000 re must bea fine
g in that country for the balloon’ men.
r & Eng” ah

Careful. A fay deyn since, ‘man  §

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 3 ---
ty
Yaa, On their way Chu
he rout for the Gretn say ated Chin en
Line vountry fooas Highly  dicin

will return fey
mmence the
portant wire
hope that it wil!

egialature of the State of Maine, has priat

fi SEVER aud Jeeaton-  aac]

wow te pravecuted to
Notion. Green Bay i ;

soo een onic

3;

ioe bank
daya, to Claeago, fying

ne

ia prohibiting the circulation of Bank publi

» denomination leav than two dollare. Enie

bank
tionary Battles. The following tables) proy

useful for occasion il reference : and 
, of Concord, April 20, 1775. petit

of Bunker- Hill, June 15, 1775.

. of Old Hampton, Va., where the In
ns took 9 deck yeasela, Nov. 1775. any
of Great Bridge, Va., Dee. 18, 1774. 
, of Fort Washington, Nov. 18, 177%. had
of Furt Lee, Noy. 19, 1773, jeete

-of Trenton, where Washington and bis  the

ok 10:0 Hexsians, Dee. 25, 1776. sopsi
» of Princeton, Jan, 2, 1777. of th
» of Brandywine. Sept. 1, 1777. rail
» of Germantown, Oct, 4,.1777.

° wer
me's army taken near Saratoga, Oct.

sion
2 of Red Banks, Oct. 22, 1777. an
: of Monmouth, Jone 19, 1773, ta U
rofStony Point, July. 16, 1779. the
» of Guilfont, N.C. March, 1781. Albi

wallis and his army taken at Yorktown,  Ber!

(48, 1751. i oe the
» of King’s Mountain, Oct. 1751. vari
sof Long laland, Aug. 27, 1779, bil’s

= EpnaNeRMEN Teel Nev

ceine.—Bell’s Messenger of the  erec
it. states that the whole Liverpool  to a
 strewed with wrecks of different ves-  3E

wing to the heavy gales lately preva-

Men, women, and
st, were in a state

lati
children, all along Pe

of constant intoxi-  5,

from ram, which had been cast at their  priy
y the wind and waves, nate

said that Mr. Solitude Ewing has  dive

safely delivered of

desi

a broad laygh, on  the

r one of his own speeches about pres-  cov

istress, ruin, and revolufion.

wt
evel

war

van Boat Susk.--A. Canal Boat  ,,.,,
ing to the Troy and Erie Line, with  tatu
five tons of Merchandize, was last  ject

by an unavoidable. accident, sunk, a

ites west of Schenectady. “Much of] intr
ight being of a perishable character,  rat

s we regret to learn, wilihe considern~
It is fortunate, however, far those who

rig
corny
tho

the goods that the pruprietors of the  ,,i1
hich shipped ‘them are abundantly res-  hj
le, and: will ey the entire loss ag soon  ienp

amount shal
Journal.

BAT Faimpronto~t

have been ascertained. —

or

sen omy
Jn Saturday night to

fire broke out in the store house of A,  all.

at Fairport, by wh
 arrivals of goods,
ly conanmed. The

ich the building and  ero
left in storage, were  tab
principal losers are,  the

ble-—-#tore house.and groceries, estimnt+  ter
from 8,500 to 95.000, insured 91,300  thir
: Protection. Insurance Co., "Hartford, Ct,  olte
sherburn #4, Williams, of Parkmau—  par

stock of goods for two stores, just len-  sre

value, $19,000, no

jouse was also a large quantity of mer-  ihe

insurance. . In the  thai

zo, belonging to various individuals in  cou

nt parts of the country.’ ‘The fire iseup-  est
to have been accilental. int
THEA—The building of the Concord  ma:

ce, and the adjoining saw mill were des-  whi
by freon Sunday night Jast, Loar, [tion
ae insurance. Puinsville Telegraph, ben
! ees

ee ees mene pn fe
as Monpuns,—The Millddge Recorder  pub
at the Creek Indiana on the @ist ult,,  the

eda citizen of Columbus, and fired:at- tere
mpanion, who escaped; and had-valso, chic

rod a gentleman from 8, Carolina, who

moving.

fructive Fire.—The

rare
nee


northern section of

¥ was visiled yeterday with the most hov

clive fire which has oceurred
a: Ng arti at about
o'clock, P. M., in the carpenters. sho

th and Stetson, whishi@ar ¢ eet marae pro)

bursting of a spirit

‘here it
bo
quarter  toy

gas lamp, accident-  &#t

‘opped upon, the floor, and gd rapid was  CY.

ogress of the flames that the work, of 
abliged to make. their eeain th le iban

without saving ¢

ven tl

: eir coulg, oF 
‘The wind was vary hugh dnrng iss pel
aternoon, blowing’ nisl and j

west, which immediately eommunicated ye

6 to. numerous buildings in Blackstone, ihe

suine moment, and

» Pond, Cross, and Hanover ‘atreets,  cha
re broke out in # many different places  ste

before.the Fire De-  asx

ant had time to get fairly at work, that  jus

along time before

their coutrol, to any considerable cx-
eomething hike tweuty buildings in the
nt atreets being on fire at the usme mo-

For nearly ‘three: hours the flames

they could bring it ject
and
ver
lisa

almost unabated, and destroyed, ax near Of 
could estimate, from 35 to 58 dwell.  ple.
[illegible]

mn and the

’ three ate At
furniture dn: the hou

although: necessarily

uch da :
ould think that as many ihevantystive

# are turned: out,
be uae mare w

probably more
heavy logs

fer a
unnecessary removal of their furni- a
ing the fire, a Un wall fell and injured  gist

r-three ‘men, but’w:

of ony loss of ‘life,

es

arene inition
wofracy i» a blouming rustic,  She: was  mel

‘i ‘s

are understood to be

"have not aw yet ,
“The: horees in the fron
saved.—Hoston lube

imp

min the cilies; she was nut nursed in  mes
reige comiinerce. "Her bir

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 4 ---
ng the laws ‘of weneral literest end

Revers

ance, are (he ncty in relation to the atate
— to increase the salaries of certain ju-
officenierto. praltibit!the cireulation of
tes of sinaller denominations--author-
tax for a’ library in each dietrict——for  the
in of-atate. privon buildings. for female  me
teeeto eubmit to. the people an amend-
sf the constitution directing the restora-
Pthe walt and auction duties to the ge-
uund—authorizing an additional appro-
no fir the new. state hall—to abolish);
oxecutionsefor the enlargement of the
anule=yrohibiting the eale of drafts by
to meet their digcounted paper-to im-
tha management of the state prigong,
Jieve mechanics from the injurious com-
n of convict Inbor=-and to repeal the
P the Inst segsion in relation to botanic
ce,
tracted and interesting discussions were
pon several bills, which were -finally re-
, or failed for want of action in one or
ther house, or were laid over to another
n. Anong these, were the: bills in aid.
construction of the New York and Erie
nad, the debates in. relation to which
extended through some days of the sex-
the Black River caraleethe Rochester
ean canale—3 ship canal from Oswego
1en—-the Utica and Syracuse rail road—
Troy and Schenectady rail roade«the
y and Berkelire rail rond—the ‘Troy and :
hire rail roude-the amended charter of
Sew York and Albany rail road ; and
is other billa for similar grante—the
eatablishing additional ferries between
York and Brooklyn-providing: for the
on of an asylim for the insane poor
end the nepimprisonment act—establish: "
department of public instruction--in re-
io the proaf of wills and other proceed -
hefore surrogates, bc. ke.
t at this sezsion, ae stall sessions, the
> Jaws bear no proportion to the acts of
te or local legislation, Aud this is both
and unavoidable ; and wa may add,
shle, Our great extent of territory = the].
sified interest of our public population ;
thousand new wants which, in-g new
ry. pressing forward with rapid strides
» career of improvement, spring up in
direction; and the prosperous and on-
condition of our citizens; are the
es of multiplied applications to the legis-
», occasionally for public or general ob-
or for measures affecting the welfare
rood government of the boy politic, but
at instances for purposes limited compa-
ly to a nerrow circle, and affecting the
and interest’ of individuals or particular
nurities. We are aware that there are
who look upon all this asa very great
and who imagine that a legislature
h ie not wholly engaged in acta of public
rtance, or which devotes much to its
to the wants and applications ofa local -
etional constituency, 18 very unprofitably
oved, and is entitled only to censure and
holeenle newspaper condemnation, With
sference, we conceive such views to be
‘ous. Until other tribunals shall be es-
she, from necessity the representative of
ple must. pass upon the claims and in-
te of individuals ; and: from the nature of
a, these interesta must ba numerous,
) conflicting, and always the object of
cular. solicitude to those to. whom they
pplicable. We should be leas or more
human if it wers not ao, Such indeed is
tendency of all our institutions, Our
a of justice from the highest to the low-
ibunal, are local personal and individual
eir adjudications, although their decisions
atlect: masses of men. A legislature
h should refuse to act upon. the applica-
of individuals, or should restrict its la-
exclusively to public acts, would avoid
avil, ard do less good, than thave who
‘such a course ney imagine. Excersive
e legislation, whatever may be said of
nblic multiplication of acts of private in-
t and application, cannot fail to be mis- .
‘aus, Change and instability, or frequent
dment to: the general statutory law,
y contributes to the ends of good govern-

here are two subjects of a public nature,
‘ver, which we are happy tosay the
latyre have not only avoided, but have
ed with a just discretion, and a very
or disregard of the clamor of the inter-
 or factions. We allude to the curren-
nd to state prison labor. - In the passage
e law, prohibitirg the circulation of
notes of the smaller denominations, the
¢ interest aid the public sentiment were
; regarded; and particularly so by the
ective application of the provisions of
et, which avoided the evils of a sudden
ge in our currency and ciculation. The
iness and certainty with which it was
ted that they would do nothing; and the
nent and urisnimity with which they re-
the ultra schemes of modern reformers
retended~anti monopolists, siguify the
slight foot hold: which that class of par-
s have oft~ined through the deliberations
¢ intelligent representatives of the peo- i
So also with the question of state prison
Pastisan spirit has attempted to mis-
the public mind upon this subject, and
nder it subservient to party views and
nal objects. With this view it haa star-
with claims to a change of system, so].
al ag not only to’ conflict with the inter-
of the state and the greal enda of peni-
penishment, but the public faith; and] i
‘been continually predicted that the le- 1
ure-would give the subject the go-byes! g
Udo’ nothing to relieve the mechanics
the injurious competition of state. prison
“The result, whilst it avoids ultra and
cticable extremes, adopts such improve-  cz
¢ as will lead “to substantial and pera- 1
¢ relief in this respect,
will be perceived, by running over the
of acts passed [published to day,] that
single bank: charter bas been granted
gislatures and is may be added. that

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 5 ---
ppen and clamorous: hostility of ‘an an-
tond inveterate opposition. And that
ey hove ‘not fulfiiled’all the clans of
constituents, they have contributed with
st zeal and intentions to the welfare of
state, and the predominance of the de-
ratic interests. —Albany Argua.

he following result of the Congressional
tions in Virginia, and accompanying re-
ke, are copied from the Globe of the 4ih
Later accounts confirm the correctness
ie statement here given :

ank and White, Administration.
, Wise, 1. Mason,
,Pahaferro,  (Nat.) 2. Roane,
, Mercer, (Nat) 3, Lucas,

, Robertson, (Nul.) — 4. Droomgoole,
» McComas, (Nat.) 5, Jones,
, Claiborne, (Whig) 6. Beale,
7. Craig,
8. Bouldin,
9. Hopkins,
10, Loyal,
It, Coles,
32. Johnson,
13. Morgan,
14. Patton,
15. Garland,
low entirely this result, together with the
tions for state renatora and delegates,
e overwhelined the opposition in Virginia,
en in an article from the Richmond Whig,
strikes “the fing,” and admits that all he
do, at present, is “to pray.” Would it
be well for bim to repent? Can the
tig, or the party represented by it in Vir
ia, ever hope for forgiveness, until they
nowledge the wrong committed in violat-
the will of the-peoplemand recognise the
it of instruction, by obedignce, instead of
ity pro.ession, annulled by acts at the mo-
nt of making them?
ut although the Editor of the Whig strikes
flag in Virginia, and although the Tele-
ph promised to strike it, and that Judge
nite would be withdrawn from the contest
the defeat of the Whigs in. Virginia, we 
no faith in their parole. They only ask 
e to take breath, Nay, the Whig in the
v same paper in which he strikes his flog 
Virginia, says that the scene of action is
nsferred to ‘Tennessee, and that’ nll eyes
turned to that State as a new theatre of
Presidential con'eet! And the Telegraph,
doubt not, will be seen to-morrow coyer-
the retreat of the White flng towards
uth Carolina.

On occasion of Mr Kendall’s transference
the Post Office department, the clerks in
Foorlh Auditor’s office sent him a com-
nication expressing their gratitude for the
doess he had ever shown them, bearing
timony to his integrity, fidelity and abih-
as a public officer, and congratulating him
his accession toa higher and more digni-
l-station. We can find space only for—
at does equal honor to the head and heart
the author—

MR, KENDALL'S REPLY.

Washington, May Ist, 1835.

Gentlemen:  have the pleasure to ac-
owledge the receipt by the bands of the
ief Clerk of the Fourth Auditor’s Office,
your communication dated 27th ult.
For this expression of your personal kind-
8, I tender you my heartfelt thanks; and
sthe more grateful to me, because it was
irely spontaneous and unexpected, It has
ny design iw public life to carry myself
th perfect: justice and impartiality towards
with. whom I may have had official tela-
ns; and the united expression of your
od will, which has been sought by me in
other way, is at the same time a confitm-
mn of the soundvess of the principle, and
“most gratiffing evidence of my success
its practical application
You do me justice when you say, that I
fe never exacted from you more than I
s myself willing to periorm. In our Go-
‘ameat, where public officers are but ser-
ats of the People, the higher the elevation
lthe greater the salary, the stronger is
obligation, by fidelity’ and industry, to
rit the one, and render an equivalent for
other. He who does not feel that obli-
ion, does not appreciate as he ought the
racter of our Government, and his rela-
nto the people; and he who does not en-
vor to discharge jt, is. unmindful. of his
t public duty, and unworthy of any public
tion,
 fear my friends anticipate too much from
in the responsible station to which it has
nthe pleasure of the President to call

Lenter upon its duties with fear and
mbling ;. but at the same time with firm-
s of purpose which nothing can shake, to
rote all my bodily and mental powers to
service; and if I fail, it shall. be because
s impossible for me ta be sucresstul. Be-
indebted for the appointment, not to any
tical. arrangement, but solely to the con-
nice the Premdent reposes. in me,  have
motive to actuate me, but by a faithful
sharge of the duties of the station, to en-
hit so close his administration with bon-
advance my own reputation, and promote
interests of our country.
Vo the alanders:of the profligate and mis-
rmed, of which you speak, I have long
ze become measurably indifferent. You,
tlemen, of whom I have ue ver exacted
slightest political service, and to whom
ave never ultered a word with the view
nfluence your. political opinions or acts,
bear witness how little probable it is that
‘ould prone any public station to party
ther improper purpuses. I 1 haye lived
yo these imputations within the narrow
ere of one office, J shall put them down,
 have opportunity, upon the broader the-
tof another. While 1 ahall ever express
Maintain, with order acd firmness, my
n political opinions and principles; as a].

meh no.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 18, COLUMN 6 ---
ee trebtite . \ 17 ile
In taking leave of you, 

le, most cordially, ‘the’ weenko Tecipee,
th which your communicates iss

d shalever field of action  mn abou
cannot hone to find off. a called
hom I can act with el reat with
If, or more advantage to the ati to my.
d unexpectedly happy. shall be, fet
her station  find 4 in ten
vally fortunate. From my ronal ee
ge of the talents and exceleat ba
y successor,  am quite certain tt
ntlemen, will have no cau tie

. ry se
ange In your official superior, sud thee _

hile our officiat connexion may be
if personal relations May not op
tved, bul be made most intimate, Oni
ticipation Tresta large f

, ortion
any happiness it my" bereter

nod fortunate to enjoy in the Sociely of
, y

llow-men.
Ourselves seven.

Accept, gentlemen, for y
'y Assurances of my ever kind and
‘membrance, with my best wishes fp
appiness and prosperity. un

With the highest regard, your friesd, ke. é

AMOS KENDALL Ae

3 3 ONG RNMENT LANbs,
As the lime approaches when there is to by

Jae sale of public lands at this place: tadys
ere will doubtless be many here who are
equainted with the situation of the atta a Hin:
he tracts of land, and with the Incal enst “2
f this western country, we feel jt oars f
lude to this subject at this time. Cotten
ell as the acts of the General Government fe
anetioned the Jocation of seltlomenty ai
nsurveyed public lands, and the Govemsens
as encouraged the settlers in such leads,
ranting thom a pre-emption right toa whee,

y for a sivall farm. Many of ‘the salllety tm
Lo tract now offered, and to be sold on be 1h
nst., came to the west and made stir Lorsticay
inder the unplied pledge of the Gureraaes

ts past ncty, that they should haven serbian
nda right to purchase the lots on Hick dey
peated, when the snine eaime into mata eg
tthe minimum price. Governnent nud
norally bound to provide for these settler, ie
ave been guilty of an act of injustice, inking.
ng these lands into market, withvet mig
uch provision, "Public opinion is strmage
han law"? it has been well said, and we tan
L may prove eo in Ubis case, and hat stranger
vho come among us, and especially ou om
itizens will not attempt to commit s6 grow ia
ct of injustice, as to intertere with the ps. ~
haxo of the quarter section, on which be bs
nade improvements, by the actual setter, We
rust for the peace and quietness of ou tom
hat these local customs, to which long wap
as given the. force of law—which bwin
epeatedly sanctioned by, the General Gem:
nent—and which are so strongly sustained ty
he principles of justice and equity, wil atk
utraged at the coming sales.

THE MARKETS.

The increase of consnmption has beans
id in Chicago, that our at: ck of eatibieene 4
joat exhausted, and if our fiends onthe ®
ash and Illinois have any produce internat
his market, we advise them to bring it am?
pon an possible. Flour, we learn, is nore
ing hore at twelre dollars per barrel, and st
hings very nearly in the same propartiot, be
eed it is almost impossible to obtain pera
f the meat kind, at any price.


Dernier nnrnremamaommne

From the Washington Glee
Mn. LEIGH.

The Richmond Whig, in enumeratig
ansequences of the late election 1a Virgess
mong othe results hap to the decan’
fhe people, has the following:

[illegible]
ne Sevave! A great gain that! Ame
he first.in talent, in reputation an characte!

devoted son of Virginia, truly and ead
+ attached to her honor and doctrines
eculiarly Virginian, i his epiions, ele
nd prejutices than any man io the sta
eadfast upon every fundamental. pot 3
ath, They drive him forth and aes
Vm. C. Rives, a partieta of Van se
1. implicit courtier of Andrew Jackson, .
nil never render a vote displeasing My fi
r3.Mr. Leigh’s inferior 18 every po!
ompanson,” &e. Ke.

he editor ofthe Whig then gt 5
estal the suggestion that a pace y
he right of instruction” bas been a

result of the late election, by sayiogs

‘Has Mr. Leigh denied that nent Pe
812 to this period, who has dele saan
[illegible]
more wept! Net Wa

7 ot &e. TH '
i feave. no doubt as to the 23th
n which the editor spesks- es bye
vat Mr. Leigh has resolved 0 H eedple
one by Mr. Rives, nie Wee we)

is inferior n every pounk 7 ™ fy
Hataolatiet 1812 ull this pei ~
ad the right of instruction veyed et
ognized it more solemnly, aout Le
pplicity,” than any one to ire em

ade op his mine  oar
ust have male op hit cop oe a

 declarations, ¥ 0 :
nge a comparison af hus ti fe i Me

the right of instruction
ives:
Although we had ai
ad his brother whigs of ¢ ig
ade common cause AR
atruction. is np
e are pralile !
cael to Mr. ‘Leigh
e feel some pride 18 fe
id should’ regret ne
i for an hour Wore th
inion, debaa

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 3 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 19
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 1 ---
7 ator scouted and denied i
gee see however, was sf
ue seed He announced his iaieatio
ante ee te some of the members of th
of nt declared. that if Mr. Brow
sen a as his colleague, tt would be

wn ct ation of the will of his state

ae bis aeats Mr. Brow

i rail majority, and Mi

“ ion~—He then vowed, if in

yoo C resignation—disdaining to giv

: ie his own sense of right, at th

of bis constituents: The pene

Mr. Mangum repelled the, ie Ne

amt ret keep his word— :
hut did not Keep

i est stage of political de
Thi tee aml honor being alik
tweet To this level Mr. Leigh wil
 ieaeend Cy therefore, connidered th
: the Whigs, as equivalen
are a Mr. Leigh.

vggement ;
gi on the part
We are informed by. th

eed bee ihe president of the Bank
tailed "States has given orders fo
- be branch of that bank at Portsmoutt
rine that the Branch at Fayetteville
x (, bas commenced winding up its cot:

certs.

i Steamboat Advocate. —
angst. Ci fram this city for Al-
This boa Monday afternoon, touched at Co-
al etal, twelve miles this side to land
an and while thus engaged at the pier,
nee exploded, the sides of which pass-
tbe h the ladies’ cabin, and the goods
- re were scattered in all. directions,
vib such force as to throw some of the frag-
i is a distance of about 150 feet—and, we
e§ to state, that from twelve to fifteen
os nee scalded, several of whom, so
iy. that it is not expected they can sure
vise; —among them the following:  Mr.
Brocek, of Coxackie very bad; Col, Butler
ai Kincerhook, (brother of the attorney gen-
eral) tod; wanter Perry, of Hudson, bad;
Mr Caldwell of do, not very had; ‘master
Basheell, ofdo.slightly. ‘The ladies’ names
could not be arcerteined. The explosion is
represented to by been as loud as the re-
six pounder.

a Wit Cliston, which left Albany
st far o'clock, went to the relief of the Ad-
orate, and took on board a son of Mr. Perry
cf Hutson, aged ten or twelve, who was
metally wounded. N.Y’. Trans. May 6.

Che shaving —"If you call this. skin-
ning,’ mid aman under the hands of a
Koight of the lather box, “if vou call this
slinging, itisnot so bad; but if you call it
shaving,  should prefere lo have vou take
the other side of your razor”?

Pretty doings in Baltimore.—The Balti-
rwte Patrint of Monday says—x"' Green peas
and fine green turtle were on the dinner ta-
bie ef Baroun’s City Hotel, on Saturday
het At Page's Hotel on Saturday Sheepa-
vad Labaler and green peas were served
op”

“Weave been iaformed by Mr, Catlin,
says the Motile Register, that the object he
has in view, ta form with his own hands
and with bit own means a national gallery,

‘ech Gall perpetuate the original manners
#04 cesfoms of the Indians uf North Ameri-
C4482 D preserve upon causes, -farthtal

lkeaestes of ther great chiefs and warriors
He wil: also

tien publish a work explanatory of
4. ton, giving a minute description of
etrlgion history, traditions, amusements,
Sy ulillastrate the whole by such speci-
aie Sstume, and other articles of their
netete, as he nay be able to procure.
fy the five vears past, Mr. C. has
polis Breat hazard of health aad life,
athe en tribes, speaking as many differ-
bier ee He has painted his» pictures
car a re-side; and has amassed much
“ about a people compar-

information
italy taknown.
: Mates that these tribes amount in all
ate. pn eens, ate chiefly in a state of
ats t [iralnted by the vices of civiliza-
Be oy in ita number are embraced,
mene fast of the Rocky Mountaina,
hc to the British Possessions. Hig
a has led him to the tegions inhab-
Nese wild people, He thinks cor-
Fae gaa one extraordinary effort
Bide the civilized world must remain
hy Baorant of thir Peculiar customs,
hac: 'R before they can be visited and
“Ht ose tribes east of the Mississip-
**, they will have been degraded

Fi have 5,
Bd toed
4S by th
tan reir first draueht of the white

© thy

at this time, about 300 pore

, *obably ne that oumber of views
bidge

tees ig cee OF the Butfile, hunting

x, tedstapes, Amusements dances ke

“BOW by crass 4

ewe He mOUstains in his

, Pacific, and thus go on, af

he shall have visited

€ cuatinent of North Amer.

b

SN ty

"ile be en: ;
4, ‘spaced, unt!
gy 7 On th

afern

"MO accent sceurred ean
phe cag A aireh, merchane of
: _Juoty, whieh, far ite for-
te ‘comet a Ht ‘without a parallel,
Sk hip ee ere as follows : Mr,

wy ‘ aie F from his house to his
i Ti eight o i, notice!
“i le £00, vbout T ten rods, notices

29 month ahi
iy f butun Tetum) ’
gs * he Hing

7 ss i

bear the
‘ hg and not seeing
me’ he had gone inte the
tes a Bury, found the
be heen Ly the house fap some
the cult Pesentinent occurred to
e hee ight have fallen into the
Sie bi gee FeatCh, with feelings
even leebly antics

he dreailtil ¢ iz
aad abe Upon the em
Aye PEALed to the
MEMEO of thie ¥-hie
Ub three fier o)
At Could have
2 but ina small
. Presence of min

Homent of

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 2 ---
‘ the mouth of the well being’ so firmly fhatene
‘as to resist the utmost force of his hande ti
remave them, The object was, after som
iminutes delay, effected “by prying up ani

aphtting off piece ala time. (ao firmly wer
they nailed) until an opemng wae made suf
ficient to admit him to peas, when he hurnec
down in search of the body uf ng son, sup
poring that the foll must have produced in
stant death. He soon diseovered the child by
ite clothing, near the top of the water. Ils
seized it and immediately commenced. wit
anaching heart, to aseend with it in his arm ;
and though in a. debilitated state of health
from frequent attacks of asthma, had accom-
plished nearly half the distance, when he per.
ceived the feeble gaap of his child. At this
moment, he found himself beginning to fail,
and had nearly lost his hold, He called to
those at the well, and informed them his child
was not dead, and requested help, when three
of his neighbors descended, nod passing the
child from one to the other, soon restored the
ull apparently lifeless body to its anxious
mother, Medical aid was immediately called ;
which, together with the assiduous care of its
anxious parents, soon restored the little suf-
ferer to a state of cousciousness, The next
morning, no traces could be discovered in the

child of an accident having occurred, other
than two or three smal) bruises on the head.

Tthica Journal,

Church Leases. —One of the old leases
for a tract of land on in the Fifth Ward,
ranted by Trinity Church, expires in 1850
y which time the leases are bound to ‘re-
move the buildings, and leave the ground
in good substantial fence.” A pretty diffi-
cult matter this. — Star.

The benefits of Advertising.—® What's
the uge.”?—Such was the exclamation when
it was first suggested that an advertisement
should be immediately placed in a public pa-
per, annoucing the. particulars of a robbery
which occured on Monday last. The adver-
tisement however was irserted in the Phila-
delphia € azette,—-and now for the folly of
the measure—the silver plates was yesterday
offerd at the mint—identfied by the officer
there, who had read the. advertisement—
the thief apprehended and nearly the whole
of the stolen property recoverd.— Phil. Pa-
per. *

SERIOUS CHARGE.

The United States Telegraph condemns
the sneculations that are going on ‘in the
Eastero states, and says that it 13 altogether
owing to the. great quantities of specie that
have been brought into the country: and
that the introductioa of. so much specie has
resulted from the course which has been pur-
sued by the Administration respecting the
Bank of the United States. Alas! what a
desperate administration we have. Last
vear it'was charged with ruining the coun-
try by rendering money scarce, and now it is
condemned for waking it plenty, by the very
means by which it was then charged with
making it scarce. Who can hesitate to as-
sist 0 putting cown such a monstrous ad-
ministration? If it is not put down it will
not be for want of desperate efforts by the
opposition.

Washington Irving was on Saturday ap-
pointed a Regent of the University, in the
place of the hon John Sudam, deceased. by
the unanimous vote of both branches of the
legistature—voluntary tribute to genius and
personal worth, as deserved as it 1s creditable
lo the appointing nower.—-Albany Argus.

Knitting Machine-—The Boston Centine!
contains a description of a knitting machine
which promises to be of great usefulness. It
was invented by « farmer of Pennaylvania,
and is, says the Centine), “very neat ond sim-
ple in ite construction, and gratifying to the
coriostity of every beholder, A child of six
years of age and invalids can work: with it.
After being prepared jt regulates itself, nnd
will do equal knitdng, either with waolen,
cotton, flax, or silk yarn or thread, more or
lesa close, according to the will of the super-
mitendeat, Its eloth can be widened or nar-
rowed ut pleasure, It ean be used to make
stockings, or materials for other purposes,”
This machine, should it answer the purposes
intended ag well as this desesiption of it would
woply, we know of nothing that will prove
nore useful, provided its cost is not so great
ns to render its introduction into families im-
practicable, Baltimore Chronicle,

[From the Pensacola Gaz. of April 25th
Horniare.—The annals of crime and in-
fatuation can scarcely furnish a parailel to an
outrage committed in this city on Saturday
might last. A Mr Whittaker, who has for
some years been engaged here in business,
after returning to his sesidence from a public
assembly with his wile, cut her throat from
rar to ear, and then made an unsuccessful at-
tempt to destroy himself by cutting his own
throat. When the alarm’ wag given, ‘they
were both found lying on their piazza, the
wife, of course entirely dead, and Whittaker
himself in a dangerous situation, It is said
he will recover. He was actuated by jeal-
QUAY ?
————————————————
Ma, Evtron—Ii there in any people of the
Associate Reformed, or seeeder, or covenenter
charchea, in the town or vicinity ot Chicago, 
they are informed Uhrough your favor, that (God 
willing) there will be preaching on lat Sabbath
of June, 7th inst. at half past ten o'clock, A, M.
in the Presbyterian Chureh, near the corner of
Clark and Cake streets, by A. Bowen, Minister
ofthe A.R.C “Come asint and sinner let us
hear.’ -~Jer. 6: 16. £

DEMOCRATS ATTEND!
The Democratic Republicans of the Town of
Chicago, triendly to the. present National Ad-
ininistration, aré requested to mect at the Ex-
change Cuflve House, on Saturday evening next,
to isake nominations of Town Officers, lo
supported at the election on Monday next.
June 4, 1835. J ‘188,
i. HuGUNIN
J. H. WOODWORTH,
T. J. ¥. OWEN,
Toren Cor’ g, Com,

Draven TIG sen TING.

. The citizens of Naper’s Settlement and pre-
cincl, friendly 10 the present National Adminia-.
tration, are requested to meet at the house of
Joveph Naper, on Saturday next, at 4 o'clock:
P.M. for the purpose. of sppoinling bee dh
to attend a County Convention, i 7
be held, to nominate count: :

1

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 3 ---
: _PROSPE TUS
OF THE EXTRA GLOBE,

The undersigned Propoee to isaue the £
number of’ a new series of the Extra Glo
on Monday, the 25th of May next, and to Pp
‘lish it-weekly for six months, making twen
six numbers; the last to contain ‘an index
the whole, It will be printed on fing dou
royal paper, made Hp in quarto form, like 
Extra and Congressional Globes: published
08 last year, The 26 numbers will make 4
quarto royal pages,

It will contain the principal original artic
of the Daily and Semi-Weekl Globes, forei
and domestic news, notices 9 public meetin
the elections, and public proceedings in evc
state in the Union, in relation to. the canvs
for the next presidencyeea contest which t
indications of the present year will go far
decide,

The firet number will contain the procee
ings of the Denmerntie National Conventi
to be held at Baltimore on the goth of ne
month, An excellent reporter has alrea
heen engaged to report the Proceedings of t
Convention, and the speeches which may
innde on the occasion,

We request the fayor of those friends
whom this prospectus may be sent, to eirc
Inte it for the purpose of obtaining subseribe:
A copy of the work will be sent to the new
Papers that copy this prospectus,

Subscribers should forward their names
tine to reach us before the 25th of May.
they do not, we may not be able to farni
them with all the numbers; because the we
iy put at so low a price, that we cannot aflo
he re-print any numbers that may be exhau:
ed,

Terms,--Onoe: dollar per co; ¥, in advance
eleven copies will be furnished ‘for ten dalla
twenty two copies for twenty dollars, and 
on in proportion,

The price of this paper is so low that v
cannot afford to openaccounts with those w!
subscribe for it, ‘Therefore, no attention w
be paid to any order, unless the money aceor
panies it. BLAIR & RIVES,

Washington, April 8, 1845,

~ CHICAGO PRICES CURREN

CORBECTED WEEELY.


Salt, bbl $275 « 3.00
Flour and Meal-
Super fine bbl 10 00 a 12
fino “5 00
Backwheat flour = none.
Indian meal bush 1 00 a 1 50
Grain— ;
Com /¢ bush 1 004
Onts  " 6a 78
Wheat. ~ " a GD
Provisions
Beef, fresh 6

tb 4a

do salt meas bbt 10 00011 00
do do prime "9 00
Pork, moss no. 1, " 20 00
oY po, 8, 16 00

One hog "14.00
prime "12:00

Dried beef Ib Wa 18

Ikains, smoked. e 10

Vhite fish bbl 8 00

Butter, keg Ib 2a

Lard : vs Sa 9

Cheeso b Wa B

White beans bush none.

Potatocs "2 00 a 1 50
Tallow, Ib Da 10
Hides, dry lb. Ba 9
Canules, box tallow le 12s 14
Building Materials
Lumber, ase'd 100 R 28 00020 00
Shingles do 3.00.0 3 50
Square timber, length ba 6
Brick, per 1000) f 00a 6 00
Siune, cord 800 a 6 50
Lime, bbl a a8

Wood, cord 2h a

AGNBUT ALS
OF VESSELS
AT CHICAGO, 1835.

‘ay 23, Schr. Swan. Duncan, St. Joseph,
a9 Austerlits, ——-, BoBalo,
2" Franklin, Bluckler, do,

29" Phillips, Nowe, Millwalkes,
39" Hellen, Chase, St. Joseph.
310'' Indiana, M’Queen, Buttalo.
31" Swan, Duncan, St,. Josoph.
June 1 8. B. Unele Sam, Lundy, Buffalo.
2 Schr. Llewellyn, Clark, St. Joseph.

Wearnted dmmediately, —
‘apprentice at this offico to the printin
A usineas. A good opportunity is offered
y an iminediate. application:

"May 20th, 1835,

AD GARYR
LUMBER DEAE Denson

MERCHANT,

LL receive all manner of iMderchandiz
On consigament, aud dispowe of them t
he best advantage, according to instruction.
N. B, Goods forwarded to the interior wit!
leapatch. Chicago, June 4, 1834,

HENRY MOORE,
ATTORNEY & CUUNSELLOR AT LAF,
and Solicitor in Chancery,
OFFICE in John H. Kinzie's now building:

REFERENCE TO
Hoe. Josxen SBrony, Camb:

iat a Man.
Chicago, Juna 2, LOR 7,
DR. J. H. BARNARD,

AT THE MKW-YORK HOUSE, LaKE-sTRRET,
ENDERS bis paleeeiona) marrices 0. a
inhabitants o! jeago, and its vi
ad hopes by hia attention and asnduity to mer
a share o! Nie heer
Chisaga, 3, LBS.
Quinine,
ES Quinine, for salp b:
LOO Mes OP CARPENTER.

Ready Made Clothing,

On Consignment,
pry obra, Mei
the manufkelurer’s prices, ae he ape
fey re Bene ekaen Glass: in clearness

ransparency and sirength, being cheaper au:

ronger than eylindty FLO CARPENTER.
Chicago, June 3, 1835. 3
New * “Cheap Wholesal
Clothing Warehouse.
HE ene wa on hand, feehly mans
factured, an extensive and complelr toa
of CLOTHING hele) compere ey an
arg Psy wry of the uldest of the large .

ablishinents in te citys ihe sneer at
Jon: hd 4

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 4 ---
AM bitters
at House, la
o,  Kinzie’s addition, > Fe eee apply to
 June 3, 1835.27; : :

4 Horses! Horses! !
ANTED immodiateiy, fitteen strong wor
e Ww Horses. They must’ bo sound and tr
Yj in years; for such the cash will be paid,
8 : JONUN T. TEMPLE.
Chicaga, May %5, 18%5.—7.
. RN OTICE.—The notes of the Bank
4% Michigan, and Farmers’ and Mechanics
 Band of Michigan, at Detroit; alvo the notes ¢
Y all the safety fund Banks of She State of New
York—the Bank of Cleaviand, and the Bank
© Tat Cincinnati, will be received at the Land Oy
0  fice at Chica £0» E. D. TAYLOR, Ree’r,

June 4, Soe

: Sealed Proposals

t wi bo-received by the subscriber, unti

' the 10th day of June nest, at 12 o'cloc!
M. for the delivery of PRESH BEEP to thi
troops of the U. 8. at Fort Dearborn, for on
year, beginning the Ist day of July, 1835,

The names of two reaponsible aureticn will b
>  requirod to accompany each bid,
* L. T. JAMISON,

. Lt and Aca.
- Fort Dearborn,
 May 22, 1835. Clw7.
eel Sad Maite

Notice.

t
1  @LEALED Praposala will be received by thi
¢  $7 subscriber, until the firwt day of July next
; at 12 o'clock M, for the delivery of fire Fandee
cords of merchantable wood, io the troops o
" the U.S. at Eort Dearborn, on or befure the 1s
day of Noyomber, 1835. "Phe wand to be cor.
ded by the contractor at such place near For
» Dearborn as will be designated by the Act’g
» Asst. Quartermaster, and must consiat of Un
following kinds and no other, 10 wit; white onk
»  hickory, white. ash any maple; cach cord to bs
18 feet long, 4 fert high and 4 feet wide, measur
! ing frow half the slupo of each end of the atick
he names of two responsible sureties will bs
 required to accompany each bid.
L. T. JAMISON,
Lt and A.A. Q' me,

Fort Dearborn, May 22, 1835.—7.

N. 1. Seperate bite will also be received fo
the delivery of twenty tons of beat prairie hay
to be cut in July or before the 10th: of Angnat
hext; cach tun to contain by actual weight 201K
pounds, LT. 3.

Ly
Mr, Rezigue, 9


”,. OTICKH.—The public

are hereby notified that

the commanding officer at Port

bt Dearborn, at Chicago, Illinois,

is authorized to call in, and receipt for all Uni-

ted States Arms and Accoutrementa,in the hands

of citizens ot .he country.

All persons having auch. arms or, accoutre-

j Menta in their possession, by purchase or other-

wise, will do well to bring or send them in, and

obtain the necessary receipts, with as litle de-

lay av possible, asa “contrary course may sub.

ject those found possessed of them to a prosecu.
tion, and the penalty of the law,

J. GREEN,
Major ‘th Infantry, Com’d. Post.
May 23, 1835—1w-6.

Administrator’s Notice.
id ba undersigned. having taken out letters
R of administration upon the estate of Will
mon Laird, deceased, late of Lasalle county, IL
[illegible]
are requested to present them to the court af
Probate, properly authenticated, at the termi of
said court, to be holden at Ottawa, on the fourth
Monday in July neat, at which time and place
U shail stiond to make a settlement of said eu
tate: and all those indebted to said estate are
requested to make immediate payment. :
PILILINDA LAIRD, Administratriz.
Ouawn, Il. May 2, IAS me dweb,
On Consignment,
BBLS. of old Ohio B'hiskey; fire
; rate article,
SOLE LEATHER;
Mena, womons and childrens, Boots 4 Shoes.
JONES, KING & CO.

May 26.

Fer Sale,
NOUSE pleasantly sitoate on
Randolph-street, nearly oppo-
site thé public square. Enquiry at
this office,

Pocket Book Found.
POCKET: BOOK ja loft at this office which
was found by an Indian in Chicago during
‘the payment last fall, containing: sume money,
; which the owner, .(F. Caldwell it. iv supposed)
can have by paying a remuneration ha ll @ leah:
an, andl for publishing this notice, by applying
[uncertain: dateline illegible]

at thie office.
For Sale,

FARM containing about 125
acres, situate on the river Des
Plains, 12 miles west: of. Chicago. 
‘Phe farm is beautifully situate with
the rollowing improvements, with’
me comfortable Log House and Baru:
40 acres under fence, 20 ploughed, 3 young nur

 sery of 2acrew, consisting of applo, cherry, pears

ince. Apply to
ee ee J. BATES, jr. Aue'r.

May 20, 1835.—5,
The subscriber is

pared to diapose of any
property, by AUCTION, or on commiasios, that
may be offered, at the old staud.

J. BATES, jr. Aue’

‘r.

United: States Mail Stages,

FROM GALENA TO > CHICAGO,
Four Haree Pot Couches, via, Dixon, (Dix-
on's Ferry,) twice a weew, will leave Ga-
lena, every Bunday and Wednesday, at 3 o'clock
Po M., and leave Chicago, svery Baturday and
Toreday for Galena.

“J. L. WILSON”
: ining an ex
Acnogls, shestings, Tickings, fc,” Heady made

elothing. . _
, », Spice, liquors, de,
Cofee, tn, nul Depa ig Boye : :
; fron hinges, We.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 5 ---
FRST rate BAKER; one who in walla
Suainted with the: business, will recei
good rakes sad constant employment. Enqui
at. thia o! May 26, 1835.—-Bt£ :

Chicago & St. Joseph Packe

bute new Schooner LUEWEL

LYN, Crank Master, wi

ply for freight and passen re, it

; ing navigation, between the mout

of St, Joseph and Chicago.: For freight or pas

saga spply to David Carver or Wm. Sabine

 Chicago, Calyin Britain, St. Joseph, or to th
captain on boar. :
May 25, 1835.—016,

ee erred,
Twig This. 

Ay Persons having unsettled accounts wit!

me, that was mado belore this spring, mus

pay up by the Tat of June, or they will be sue

of

without further notice-juir warning.
. i YW. MUL
May 26,

“FORD.
mc moon a!
Hardware, Stoves, &ec,
HE undersigned linve formed a connection
in the merchantite buviness, under the firn
of Jones, King &. cv, They are receiving by
Brig Illinois, a large and general aseortinent of
: Mard Ware,
Cuttlery, Naiis, Tron, Stecl, &es
A large and complete assortment of
STOVES,
and Store Furniture, tron Ware and Save Mil
Geering, which they offtr at. wiotrsaLe or ne
TAML. WILLIAM JONES,
BYRAM KING, '
H. B. CLARKE.

May 26, 1835,

esi ea crag ENO epee
New Goods! New Goods!
HARMON, LOOMIS & CO,,

HAE received by the late arrivals, part o
their spring aupply of GOODS ; consis
ling of”

DRY Goors,

Groceries and Mard Ware,
which they offer for sale waneually cheap! at thei
store in South Water-street,

Chieagn, May 27, 1835.—2w-6.
RUSSELL E. HEACOCK,
Connsellor and Altornay at Law,

Chicago, Mhiavis,
ILL attend to all business canfided to his
; care, in his profession, - He will also do
the business tor all’ who may employ hin, in
land couveyancing, being a Justice of the peace
business may be done ax reasonable, and more
conveniently. He will also opin and keep at
the same place, a Lesad Agency Offics, for: the
purchuso of land, the payment of taxes, &e, for
all who may give him busines in that line; bas.
ing been a resilent at Chicago for the last eight
years, and being acquainted with almout every
section of Jand for the first 30-miles of the [i-
noiw canal line, and for the distance of many
miles around Chicago, ‘he thinks himeetf wel
unlified to give information on thet subject, and
do the business for non-residents, as any other
in the state,
Letters addressed to the subscriber, post paid,
will be attended to,
Office in the 2d atory, opposite the Exebange
Cothee House, corner af Lake and Franklin-ate,
Chicagos, May 23, 1835. —Gte

Dry Groceries,
LARGE lot is now offered for sale, by
A May 26. JONES, KING & CO,
For Rent,
WO Stores; one on South-water street,
and one on (Uske street; also one com-
fortabie Dwelling. Enquire.of
J. T. TEMPLE.
Chicago, May 27; 1835.—3w-8
paced. Ii iad Resa

For Reat,
' CONVENIENT. Store House, on Water-
Mm. street, Enquire of
DAVID CARVER.
May 27, 1835,

OTICE,—The co-partacrship heretofore
N existing between D. O. Robinson. and R.
A Neff, in this day dissolved by tautual consent;
all persons having dealings with said firm, will
please to call on D. ©, Robinuon for settlemont.

D, 0, ROBINSON,

. ROAUN :
Chicago, May 11, 1835,—3w5.

FEW barrels WWERUTE FISHEL, prime
a Lae, re by Jones, King co,


Valuable Farms for Sale,
NUMBER ‘of valuable improved. Farms,
situate slong the line of the -Dlinois and

ALehigan canal, somo of tho best Joeations in
tho country. C..C, VAN HORN,

Hickory Creck, May 18, 1835.40.

N. B.C. C.)V Hewill be in Chicago from

Hie 25th until after the land salo,

0 LEP Store, 1 snail
Desellis a a jerks yao
suitable fora ing House. En-
qureof CC, IL. FLAPS
iy 18, LE. Sw,

[illegible]
oT seThe conuexion in business
between the aubssriber and Wm. H. Brown
was closed tho Jat of Janusry last. ‘The cash
ipon the debts due the firm of Kusedl 4 Browa,
od aluo the subscriber; will ba received by him
ad good and sufficient dears fire. therefor.

. RUSSELL,
Chicago, May 49, 1835. —3w5.
1. CURTISS,
Attorney and Couusellor at Law, and
SOLICITOR. IN CHANCERY,
rt SLLISONB
PRICE in South Water-sireet,_ fir door
6) west of Mears. Josxs, Kina & Co, (up
irs.) May 18, 1835,—6
Lots for Sa
a subscriber offera: for on liberal


“eligibly situated
[illegible]
riginal town,, BK, HUBBARD,
icogo, May 19, 1636.—O1 ee

FEO. W. FORSYTH,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 19, COLUMN 6 ---
VARY Sirinec at ieeenes, pth tee Srewnite
am Springs at Harrodaburgh, Ky., in
 ee nae tale Mic Waskinglow Mall te
® Hillsborough, 117; and last the M ans
: sion Hour: in: Springfield, I., hae
ah removed back. to -his old stand-in -
Hillsborough, where he haa opened a

House: of Entertainment
for travellers and ‘others who may favor him
with call, — His house is couyenient and com
fortable; his table will be furnished with the
beat the country affordes his bar will be euppli-
ed with the choiccat i ora, and his stable will
bo well supplied with ‘Tornge. Trevellore may
rest assured that no exertions shall be wanting
on bia part to render them eqinfortable. Thank=
ful for pa favors, he hopes to shares conting:
ance of public patronage, i

N. 1. Hin nae over the door will be hie sigh
for the present, H.C. BENNETT.
Ontober 1B3A me HAE. 2

TO MERCHANTS.
PATTERSON, RDNER & MATHER,
IMPORT AND. s¥14,

China, Glass, Earthern Ware and

Hooking. Giasgaes, :
T the lowest New-York prices, (adding one

4B ly the loweet rate of carria °)
At the sign‘of the Large Pitcher, ..
No. 112, Jeernasos Avexve, Drtnors,

The above firm being @ branch of an exten-
‘sive house at Buffalo, N.Y, (well kaiowi thro”
Ue western country,) ander the firm of. Gard-
sper & Patterson, are determined to sell every
article. in their line, as low and On £8 accommo-
dating trms av any house in the United States.
The subscribers, trom their acquaintance with
she various Potteries in England, have been a-
Me (by: personal attention) to make such selec-
tions as will warrant them in asserting that their
Ware, in point of quaiity and elegance, in not
inferior to any: imported,
Patterson, Gardaer & Mather.

—ew
Looking Glasses,

P., G. & M. have conneeted with their entab-
lishment an. extensive Looking Glass Factory,
which enables them to sell that article lower
than the same article ean be bought in New-
York city. The subscribers will keep con stant.
ly on hand a Aatry stack of Cuisa, Gass, Ear-
Turns Wane, and Looxina Grasses, avd on the
opening of navigation; will be receiving, direct
froin Liverpool, heavy quantities of ware, of the s
Jatest style and patterns, whieh merchants, on 
their way to New-York, and others, are invited
to eall and examine—at No. 112, Sign of tha.”
Large Pitcher, Detroit,

Swi Patters

rdner & Mather.
CROMELIEN, BR IRS & CO,

Foreign Wine and Liquor Establishment,
No. 363 Peart-Street, New-York,
wi. open a Branch of their House in this

cily, at 127 Mur Street, (near the Man-
sion House,) on. the 25th inat., for the perma-
ment business of supplying Us place and the
whole Western Country with seperior and gen-
uing f :
Wines and Liquors.

‘They are desirous to. have the publick acqaain-
fod, that from their long experience in the busi-
ness, and of their many We tern Customers
who have been supplied for the past 2 years, as
well as frou the continued patronage they ree
coive, they must give entire eatistection, and
feel confident that in opening a branch here, as
they have, will much facilitate Morchants in tho
despatch of their Orders, which otherwise would
hav- to be sent to New-York. In doing the a-
bove, and by appeaiing io the publick, we are
assured Lhat thiv will meet the views of the many.

All Orders and Letters, rost-Paip, will

wunctually atiended to, directed to this place or
Now-York. .
Buffalo, April. 16th, 1855, 2mb-

Be
A Steam Engine for Sale..

HE subscriber offera for sale a Steam Ea-
ine of sufficient power to run throe pair
of mill wtones, two of which may be 4 feet be-
weas, and one of 9 smaller size, sc ara
‘This Engine was built under the inepestion of
the owner, who isa Practical engineer, and ean
therefure warrant the same to be of the best iron
ind sufficient power for the above purposes or
fora vaw mill, with a lath machine and I
tone attached tq it. The subscriber would sell’
ialf of the engine for cash, Lo one who would
atablish a grist will in the fourishin village of
Lakeport, in- Laport county, Ia. where be is
now putling up. another engine for a eaw mill,
or he will sell the whole engine on the most fa-
vorable terms, and receive several pairs of good
oxen, and ono or two substantial wageons,
payment. The engine will arrive at

in
‘ort

‘ae, on the first rise of the St. Mary's river,
nd will be left in charge of Col. Srexcen, of
Fort. Wayne, ot whom further particulars may be
rad, or by addressing a ling to the. subscriber at

; Laport eo, Te
aierete Taper 6 Th og onen ptas,

May, 1834, nb,

J. S.C. HOGAR)
ERS at Wholesale and Retail, at his Store
0 Bethea boner sagan
he Post Ofiice, :
Dry Goods, Groceries,
pantity of by 10, and 7 by 9 Windu
ilee—a quan Pid by!

& doz. cor; BASKETS
ROO sides Sole Leather 7
60 do

Just received from 1

Ohio,) 4 tons superior:

if Potash and uu
Daa mt Tea Kettles; Harros

STOVES, #c.

hich.he. will well oe

ought weet of New-York,

‘Faly WO, 1834, wi
Boot & Shoe Making. —

Per eee

2: é

: Lo ben's to il be hand

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 4 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 20
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 1 ---
Preasvee.—lt to say what
Jeasure means.—Plensure bears @ diferent
ense to every different: person, Pleasure
o a.country Miss, just come out, means. a
race ball, and go many partners that she has
tance till she can hardly stand.’ Pleasure
10 wo aspirant after fashion, means, ‘a card
ing Devonshire House, or a nod from Lady
see,” ‘Pleamure to 2 echool boy, means
tying a bring to his schoo! fellow’s when he
Ba aleep, and palling it antil he aiwskes
yim. Pleasure to a.man of inquiring mind
menne ‘a toad inside, or & beadle: running
with his head off. Pleasure to a man of
laste means ‘a first rete artist, and a good
dinner.’ Pleasure to a Inboring man means
‘duing nothing.’ Pleasure to a fine lady
means theving something to. do to drive a-
wav the time.’ Pleasure to an antiquarian
means ‘an ellegible macription. Pleasure to
a connoisseur means ‘a dark, invissible, very
fine picture.” Pleasure to» philosopher, @
young Philosopher, means ‘likening nothing,
despising every thing, and proving evely
one a simpleton except himself.’ Pleasure
tom beggar. means a sovereign by mistake,
instead ofa shilling.” Pleasure to 2 sailor,
‘a fresh breeze and a sight of land,’ Peasure
to the sweelest of all tempers, ‘the last word
a an argument.” Pleasure to the social,
the human. face divine.’ Pleasure to the
morose, ‘I shan’t see a soul for the next six
months.’ Pleasure to.an author, ‘the last

ge of his manuscript~—bliss inexpressible
‘Fins.’ Pleasure to all, to every one in
their own way, and that way s different one.

ce

Pecuuianiries OF MEN OF GENIUS.—
Homer, it ix said, had such an aversion to
natural music, that he could never be pre-
yailed on to walk along the banks of a mur-
muring brook, nevertheless, he sang his own
ballads, though notin the character of »
rmeniicnet, as recorded by the infainous Zoi-

Virgil was so fond of salt, that he seldom
went without a box full in his pocket, which
he made use of from time to time, as men
of the present day use tobacco.

Zoroaster, it is said, though. the most pro-
found philosopher of his time, theoretically,
was very easily put oct of temper. He
once carried hia irritability 0 far as to break
a marble table to pieces with a hammer, be-
ome he chanced to stamble over it in the

rk. ;
Shakspeare, though one of the most gen-
arous of men, wasa great higgler. He
wan often known to dispute with a shopkeep-
er for half an hour on the matter of & pen-

ay. He gives Hotspur credit ‘for a portior
of his own disposition, when he makes hin

pol would cavil on the ninth part of 
heir:

_ Peter Corneille, the greatest wit of bi

dime, so far aa concerns his works, was re
amarksbly studied in. conversation, as wa
‘also, Addison, whois acknowledged to hay
been one of the most elegant writers th
ever lived,

Haniel was such a miser, that at th
same time he was in receipt of filly pound
anight from the Opera, he was frequent!
Known to wear a shirt for a month to say
the expense of washing. -

Burns never remained sober no long a

‘he coukl get drunk. It was in the fits occa
sioned by this peculiarity, that he wrote s
many of those simple doggerels for servan
det bdioe erege! attached tc
: iful aira,-under the title of
as ‘Wandering Willie,’ &e. a ees
Bhron. was also sadly addicted to t
‘malt stoup.’ Some of hie stanzas, hone
were produced under the influence of the
jolly god. According to hie servant, Petes
Conray, lately deceased in this city, » pin
of brandy was his nightly allowance,
Samuel: Rogers is an inveterate punster
albeit from his poetry, one might sup
him to be the gravest ‘man in Cristendom
He has one peculiarity that distinguishes hin
from all poets, past, present, and to come
i. @. three Iwandred thousand pounds.
_ ‘fhomas Campbell, though an ugly man
it is said, is very vain of his arsenal appear
pega Pe ones discha ipod & servant for hint
4. Pe y of getti i
is iit wee free wit: getting a wig, a
“Sir Waller Scott was said to have take:
no pride in the wonderful creations of hi
Esesaiet at the Let time that be was ex
aie Fain reat :
ra sd Gide of sheriff of th
9g, however, isthe victim i
More unpardonable vanity. Wheserer
in asked out to dinner, be invariably ‘says, ‘
shall do ye the pleasure, and then ye wil
ha’ it to say, that Piling the honor. to ait ii
aay, . ay. wan ee Shepherd, allowe:
jn the Sad” Greatest sang write

. Wasrerviess.—How often men ay,
wen to be utterly careless, of that “whic!
cost them nothing to possess, and which they

matter of course! ey vet in respect t
ior of greatest, as well ‘sie les

One man hae property which he di
thing “towards acropulatio gyre lace
bi’ y industrioas and careful ancestors, an
which be may therefore consider ax indepen
Bent of his own agency as thoogh it ha:
[ose camiednet peels bo ee
Otterance of x voice from heaven, Hence

aw be. “to de i hoe * 
2 be dpe tod ing tn te
peer. Pe blisstion Sie
nck jaberitabea,”. By the io ridet h
ther man more recklees still, appear
snl view.ol his own fife. Ai

Ante posapsasion
it valua

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 2 ---
Fepuitat1ox To Morar.
ilsdelphia, states as tite
adence with several of
he superintendents of our public prisons-—
hat, sr thal of Philadelphia, about one Aal/
of the prisoners could neither rend nor write;
ind that not ten, out of 216, had received a
edacation. In the ‘prison at Auburn,
anly 204, out of 670, bad feceived » tolera-
ble English education; and at Sing Sing om
ly 42, out of 842, bad reeeived a good com:
won English education. Other prisons, no
doubt, would ‘give a similar result. From
this it may beaeen of bow great importance
om community isa general oni) well-regu-
lated system of common schools. —Neu
York Transcript.
Life is a fovatain fed by 2 thoasanc
treats that perishes if one be dried. It is
a bilver chord twisted by a thousand string:
that parts assunder if one be broken. Prai
acd thoughtless mortals are surrounded by
jauumerable. changes which makes it muct
more stiange that they escape so long thar
hat they almost ail pensh at last. We ar
aceotnpanied with accidents, ever reatly
crush the mouldering tenements we inhabit
The seeds uf disease are planted in our con
stitution by the hand uf natere. The cart
aud the atmosphere, whence we craw ov
life, are impregnated with death-—health i
made to operate in its own destruction—thi
food that nourishes the body contains the ele
ments of its cdecay--the soul that animate
it by a vivifying fire, teady to wear it out b
its actions—death lies in ambush all abou
our paths.
NEWBERRY & DOLE,
Storage, Forwardiog and Commission
MERCHANTS,
CHECLSGI-LLLEN ORE
‘Agents for the Merchants Lines

REFERENCES— Pan
8. T. Axsstrose, No.9, Conties Slip, N. Yor!
Roprnt exten, Exq. Albany.

Bauren & Horr, Buffalo.

Otiver Newperny, Detroit,

Carvin Darra, Mouth St. Josph,

Jance 8. Camraris, Ottawa, 1.

Also, Wholesale and Retail Dealers in

Dry Goods Groceries and
PROVISIONS.

WUSBARD & CO.
Commission e Forwardin;
THRRCHATNG >
CHICAGO—ILLINOIS.

Gvanos S. Huppann,
Hrany G. Uvonnann,

Fire insurance.
HE eubscrikers having been appoint
Agents for the Howard Fire Insorant
Company of the city of New-York, for Ct
eago and the vicinity, will insure property.
goinet.loss by Fire, on reszonable terme.
duly 1. FE. [k&. HUBBARD,

‘Town Maps,
UST received and for wale, Lithograph
Maps of the Town of Chicago, includit
the Scheol Section, ‘‘Kinzio'a Addition,’ W
ban-sia, &e. handsomely executed.
KINZIE & FORSYTH.
June 18, 1834.
They can also be found-at tho. offiee of th
“Chicago Democrat.”

ALT ip good barrels, now unloading fro
the Schooner, Mariah Antonette, and Ate
Janta, Forsaleby HUBBARD & Co.
July 2, 1834.

AT AUCTION,

IN DAY'S ADDITION TO OTTAWA.
HIE. subscribo: having obtained title by pra
2 eption to an 80 are lot adjoining the «
riginal plot of the town of Ottawa, atate of II
nois, has proceeded to Say off the same into cor
venient lota for building; &c. and will sell 4
Public Auction, FIFTY LOTS, to be seleote
from the different. Blocks in the survey, on t)
13th JUNE neat, in the town of Chicago, IIL
To those who are acquainted with the deligh
ful situation of Ottawa, it will not be necessar
to speak of ita superior advantages being at ti
junction of the Fox, with the linoin River an
surrounded with hydraulic power to any poseib
contingency, Ia high water it is al the bead.
navigation, and with an inconsiderable expe
ditnre applied to the improvement of the river
may nd will probably become the head of nai
igation at any stage of water, and the termini
ion of the contemplated Canal, authorized
be made from the ssid river to Chicago. T)
(nuda in the immediate vieinity of Ottawa, ar
aed atieesht sonny are arable and pracee'
b cultivation and are nol aurpaseed by ar

in ane State for preyeets ”

‘hS scenery in the nei hood ia unrival
the health of the place equal to any other t:¥
in the atate situated upon stream, and indes
the friends of Ouawa claim for it advantages c
that score that no other town upon tho riv
‘ponsenes, founded apon the fects of the enti
absence of timbered and orerilowed bottoms
intervals, and a brisk current in the sireams wil
rocky and sandy bottoms, already there are nip
bul eer on Mist part of the Town laid off b
t aber woveral others aire in progres
of esti i ine Prowees

‘© capitalists this sale will afford a certai
H fendiaaied Of a good investment to Merchants

chanics and business Men, an opportunity
bes presented on secure or lower terms tha

OMY ever occur agai igible
for business and reaidencas Se
inteligent, moral, active, pod gn wand ry
spectable. Ottawa was laid out by Cans
c in 1831, in the County: Beat ¢
la County and is believed to be dastine
* take the lead of any part of the state, in flony
ing and Say Mills and Manufactories and ‘the;
consequent’ ‘benefita the opinion ia founded apo
the fact of the unrivalled advantages of Ottaw
in her hydramlicipower, ils very advantage
ination « on secount of pavigation and marke
avi ino 7 va i
a rp tare rl ia or Now-Yor
id

i anded a agion of countr:
Teh fertle'and snd scapge & waste

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 3 ---
‘List «
EMAINING in the Post Office
R Illinois, tet April, 1286.
Revd. E. Ambrose: Paliy 3.
‘Daniel
Israel Brown
Levi Catterilt
Archibald Crowl.
Michael Carury
Samue! Dixon

Richard B. Davis
hie a English we
M Enoch x Seto
Wie Fuller Eag. John Squer
Mary Frazer Uriah ¥ entworth
Acletine Frazer David D, Wallace §
Elijah Garton oc G. W. Joxoph Zumalt
Gry a. W. BOWEN, P. BF

EP The site of this Office, is changed to Wl
Village of Juliet, and the Eastern Maile, will 
received via. Chicago, twice a week.

List of Letters,

EMAINING in tho Post Ofive at Plai

field Iinois, Ist April, 1835,

Rey. J, En Ambrose. Rev, Wm. Kirby

Thomas W, Bradley Thomas J. Long

Warren W. Bixly Wyton Martin

Jonathan Covey Gorshom Martin

Horace Chas Jousbua M, Ridgeway

T. Coltins J. A. Sceby

Thomas Duncan Stephen Sanford

Kidridge G. Eames Isnac Stone

J. R. Holden Sulius Sackett

John C. Hough Alonzo Holman

George Houg Daniel W. Thomes

James Harris syne We Sacre
Jessy, iia Wallace

ine 4 L. F. ARNOLD, P. M.

Musical Insiruments.

NEW anil Extensive agvoriment of t
A mest modern and approved music and m
acal Instraments, such as Piano Fortes, of e

ant and newest fashion: Clarionett and Bugh
Sultars, Violins and Violincelloa; Trnmpe
Drams, Bass Drains, Fife, Flagilette, Poo!
Horns end Hauthoys, Xe.

All of which will be sold at unusual low
ces. The above articles to be found at the
troit Raok Store, and at Jno. B. Piqueite's Je
olry Store. Detroit, Nor. 8. 1834.—-81 U6.

ines, Cigars, &c.
HAMPAIGNE, of the Sillery Brand.
i_/Sherry of various brandsand importatio
Maderia lo. 0.5
Malaga; Sicily, Ma.; Port, “Iarris;” Be
earlo 5 gre.
CIGARS, of the celebrated nianufacture
ernando Clark, Havanna, and others, for en
HURBARD. & CO.

Watches and Jewelry.
J. 1 MULFORD,
AVING just retu
¢d frown Now-Y:
and Philadelphia, with
extensive assortment of
Clo ke, Watches,

Jewelry, &
ar Conprising As greal a vi
of gooda in his line, an has ever been offe
eat of Buffalo; consisting of
Gold and Silver Patent Lever, Lepine, E:
lish and common Watches;
 Alabaster and Ebony 15 day Time Picces-
atrike hourse and half hours;
Curtiw’ and Donning's 8 day time pieces;
Rich diamond, pearl, cameo, and agate Bre
Pins; do ~ do. Jet Finger Rings
Pearl, jot, campo, fie ba vine Ear Ring
Gold cable and curb lien’ Wateb Chain
Cattery aud Fancy Articles,
Mathematical Instruments; Pocket Piatols
Roger's beat silver nteol Haizora;
Powdor Flasks and Shot Pouches;
Thermometera; Measure Tapes;
Double and single barreled Fowling Piecos
Table and desert Knives and Forks;
Back gammon, cheguer and chess boards, d
and chesa men; Double Mirrors;
Snuffer and Trays ; pocket books and walle
A great variety of dirk, pocketand pon Knis

pectacies.

Gold, Silver, Plated and Steel Spectacles,
suit any persons eyes,

Music,

A lot of good Music Boxes, of different nis
Harmonicas, and many other articles too 
merous to mention. :

Silver Ware.

A Food assortment ever pointed Pencil Cas

Table, tea, desert, cruam, mustard and 
. Spoons; Sugar Tonge; Buiter Knives,s

Indian silver work manufactured on the sh
toat notice, and as cheap as can be bought
the United States.

Watch Repairing.

3. H. M. is determined that no pains shall
pared in repairing all Watches entrusted to
eare, on the shortest notion and in a workm
like manner. Cash pond for old Gold ond Sik

Chrago, May, 1 :

NEW GooDs,
PETER COHEN,

were beg leave to inform hig.old ¢
 7 towers, and the public generally, tl
he has junt received by brig f1 a, and off
for saleon the most renaunable torma, a Jay,

 complete and splendid assortment of
Dry Goods, Groceries, #

CLOTHING,
well suited to this section of the country,
kinks of Liquors, at wholesale and retail.
reapectfully requests the people to call and;
amine for themsplyes, at his store next door 
 low Meare, Nowberry and Dole's siore hou
On south water street,
Cheago, Nov. 3, 1834.49.

PHILO CARPENTER,
Wholesale & Retail Druggis
AT THE 10" OF THE GOLDEN MORTER,

South Water Street, Chicago, -

Let ideyd rare pict dy
PRTAS An

“; MEDICINEs,
i Falnts, Oils, & Dye-Stum
every article unusly calad forts Door bas
A general and well selected assortment
ary Gasceviet, Crockery,

and Glass- Wa
together with an f

8

800 pales coarse and fine men's BO ‘B.

200° do. do. 
and Bhathes. Neils, boos, shovela

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 4 ---
[uncertain: Dense small type and uneven inking leave unresolved characters in this column.]
eee ee eee Kirby, Hamad W-

d award Knaggs, James
ate E King, Elma A.
Adaras. Joseph. Kirby, Hannah AL.
Ambrose, Joshua E. 3 Le
Allen, Richard Be Luce, William
Andrus, Tacomas Leen Robard

i ¢ wis, W. 7.
ee Lee, Jobn II.

Bulten, Jeduthan. ¢ Lunger, Jucob
Bouerfeld, Zimry Loveland, Robert,
Barrows, Mary _ Luear, Ann
Bomgarten, Moritz 2 Lozier, Mr.
Rennet, Lyman @ Launb, Caleb

. Barton, Wooster J. Lamb, Adam
Britain, Hiram Z.  & Lathrop, Saiwue! 8
 Hertholf, Marcus Leg, George

1 Blake, Levi Loring, Wm.
Bradstreet, Albert G. 4 M.
Brown, Lemuel Moore, Joly,

rown, Clarisa ss M'Ewen,. Win, B,
Bash, Riley Mason, Matthias

Brawn, Horriet E,  Martin, Patrick
Bartlett, Charles IJ, 3 Milow, Jobp
Brown, Adam Miller, Jesse
Bandle, William Mileted, John
Beach Willism H. M'Fadin, James
Brown, Joseph N,. Morley, James ET.
Bourdman, W. E. Mitchell, Henry:

Bailey, Bennet Maynard, Elias
Beach, Reuben Micliriski, Mr.

-  Beaubien, M, B, Moore, Nelson
Brooker, Samuel Moore, James

» Barry, Jchn 8. Musgrave, Joho
Bane, George B, Murry, Alanzo

-  Barton, Ratus Morrigon, 'T. M.

 Bande, Ann Mack, Stephen

 Bennett, Amos - Meigs, David

1 Bennett, Hiram 8. Miner, Amanda

 Berger, F.C. Mackie, James

" Brown, Schuyler Merrill, Winthrop

2 Cc. Miller, John
Curtin, LG, Muller, Marshall

~ Church, Benjamin = -M’L.can, John V,
Childs, Sarah Merals, Washingt
Carpenter, Gilbert = M’Kean, Joseph,

;,  Covalt, Enos Malone, Patrick

~  Crandal, Alva Minard, Ira

,.  Cooley, Simon Meeker, Joseph
Cook, Harvey Matthews, James.

»  Compart & Coquillard, .

»  Chase A, R, Nelson, John M.

Champlun, John 8 Newton, Daniel
Chauncoy, Oronge’ = Natta, John V.
Clement, Sarah a,

Conant; Eben Osborn, Wm.
,.  Cooley, Edward W.2 Onthet, Daniel

 Center, Willard P.

n Chesnut, Julus Paddock, Jane
Collins, Jeredat Palmer, N, H.
Chadwick, Joseph ——- Page, Frederick Vi
Carpenter, Mr, Parker, Alanson
Carter, James Parker, Curtis

 Craig, Jeremiah Paine, Seth
Crall, David Preston, Esther

 Clark, Jobn A. Parmlee, George 

B’  Chancie, Joseph Puller, Ludwe

Cutler, Morris Paige B.R.
Coldwell, Archibald.” Pank, Wm. W,

Chevalier, Louis P, Parcel, Aaron
st  Chase, Enoch Poke, Edmund

Clark, Baldwin T, . Phelps, James H.
i Dd Pearsons, Hiram
+  Dunham, Al, R.
Dean, James L, Roberson, Daniel
Doane, Seth 8, Riddle, Mr.

Davis, John Rowley, Herman.
4 Dudley, John Jr. Ritchey, James
Doel, Aen Ritchard, Charles .

Dustin, Thomas Rathburn, Amos
 Dunn, Dangerfield Rice, Samuel

Downer, Pierce Risley, Horace
33  Downer, Stephen Reeder, Henry
% Reed, Thomas

Fetes, James 8. Richarls, Charles
o  Evang, Sciota 2 Russe), John
Rarly, Henry A, Rogers, Edward A

,  Bina, J.P, Renwick, Theopil
“ Eager, Hiram Romer, Carl
Everitt, 3, 8, 3.

F, Schermerhorn, M,

.,Folliott, Jonathan Skinner, E. F.
Forbes, Stephan Sricher, John

e,  Ponter, Caleb Smith, George

 Fuller, Porter Stephens, & co,

n Fowler, James W. Squire, George
Fowler, Albert Benture, Antoine
Ford, Eheneser Stevens, Lavant

. Freeman, Ford Spring, Thomas 0

. . & r, Waljrj

.  Gooding, Wm, @ Stiles, Davi

 Galueha, Russell L. Stevens, B:

6Galueha, Jacob A,  Shelden, Oliveann

~  Goodrich, Grant Steward, Joseph
Goodell, Nancey Ann Sloan, Douglass
Goddard, Mr, Starne, Shepard

- Godfrey, T, Shoup, Michael

 Gilbert, Jonathan Schnuder, P.

« Grant, Oranto 2 Sammona, Ricard

,  Gleazen, ye Stevena, Isaac
Galusha, Jne Smith, Jeremiah
Goodrich g Abell, .. Smith, Orange
Gardner, John B, Smith, Henry
Garton, Eli Shintafle, James

 Gibbs, James H. Simona, U.

o Goddard, Wm, H, . Steale, Richard

 Gifford Hezekiah ‘Torst, James
»+Gunn, Medad H. ‘Taylor, Justin
Garland,

land, J. Jy Todd, Hugh &,

a Hy Thomas, John
Hotebins, Nathan —_Titcomb, Timothy
Holder, Jesae ‘Tilman, Mr,

»  How, Phineas 4 Tobdell, Joweph
Hall, J , itterington, Char!
Hill, Ienac: 1, Thompsond, John

 Hall, Cynthia *Tucker, Alexr. H,

 Holmes, Cyreniog Taylor, Deodat

f Howard, Elbert Tuttle, Jno B.-

House, Chester Vander rt, H.
Hnake, James C, Vanfleet, John,
Hickok, Nelson Vardon, Geo:

: How § Whittier, _ _Vanseur, Noe

" Hobson, Jesse Vaun, Angeli
r Harris, James Volk, John Bd

Hort Willes Wood, wi

ani, VV illian i mM.
,Holeomb, Samuel B, Woods, John H.

 Harrison, Wooster Westover, Roy K.
Holliday, Wm, 8 Whi Joshua
Hallet, 2. H, hite,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 5 ---
By the President of the United Sta

N: pursvance ot law; J, Anpaew Jacnsoy
shen of tho. United States of Aineric
hereby declare and make known that a 
Salo will be held at Chicago, the pent «
Land Office for the North castern district
lintels, commencing on Monday, the 15th
June next, for the disporal ofthe Public
within the limits of the undermentioncd
ships and fractional townehips, situated ¢
waters of the Illinois, Fox, Laplaine, anc
million rivera, along the rout of the Cani
thorized by the act of congross approved
2d of March, 1827, entitled “An act to ¢
quantity of Land to tho State of Illinois, 
purpose of aiding in opening a Canal to
the waters of the Iinois river, with th
Lake Michigan,”” and excluding the: alt
sections revere to the State of Ilingis. 

rovisions of said act, to wit: 4.)
PFNorth of the base line and East of 3d pri
meridian: ase

‘Township 2

Tomnahip 32, of range 4, except secti
and 3.

Township Sof range 4, except section
5, 7,9, 1, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 4
31, 33 and 35.

Township 34, of mnugo 4, except sectio
19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35,
‘Township 85, of range 4.

That part of Township 36, lying Soutl
oldiindian boundary, of range 4.

Township 31, of range 5

Township 32, of range 5, except sccti
83,5 7,9, 113, and 15.

Township 33, of range 5, excopt secti
3,5, 7.9, 11, 33, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 2

‘ownship 34, of range 5, except sectic
31, 33, and 35, Fae

That part of Township 35, lying West
river, and South of the old Indian bound
range 5,

Township 31, of range 6.
Township 32, of range 6, except sect

Township 33, of range 6, except secti
3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
31, 33, and 35,

Township 34, of range 6, except sectic
25, 27, 29, 31:33, and 35.

That part of Township 35, lying Sout
old ndian boundary, of range 6.

Township 31, of range 7.

Township 3, of range 7.

Township 33 of range 7, execpt sect
3. 5, 7, 9, 11, 12, 16, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27,

Township 34, of range 7, exeept roctic
13,15, 17, 19, $1, 23, 25, 97. 29, 3h

That part of Township 95, of range 7
South of the old Indian boundary line.

Township 31, of range 8.

Township 22, of range 8. 

Townkiap 33, of range 8, except sect
3,5, 7,9, 11, 15,.and 17.

Township 34, of range 8, except sect
3,.5,.7, 9, UL, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
31, 33, and 35, "

‘That part of Township 35, lying Sou
East of the old Indian boundary, of rang
cept section 85,

hat part of township 36, lying Sou
East of the old Indian boundary, of rang

Townehip 31, of range 9.

That part of Township 32, lying Nort
Indian boundary and Weat of Kankakee
of xange i. io ar 5

‘owship 33, of ran except sect
3,6.7,9. 11,15 andy

Township 34, of range 9. except sect:
3,5, 7,9, IL, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 
31, 33,35,

Township 35, of ange 9, except sect
3.5, 7, 9, 12, 18, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 95, !
3), 33, and'35,

That part of Township 36, lying Sout!
old Indian boundary line, ot range 9,,
sections 25, and 35.

That part of Township 37, lying Sout)
old Indian boundary line, of range 9.

That part of Townships 32, and 33,
North and West of the Indian boundary
range 10,

Township MM, of range 10, except secti
5, 7, 9, 17,19, and 3.

Township 35, of rauge 10, except secti
3,5, 7, 9, 1, 13, 16,17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
31, 33, 1 and 35,

ownship 36, of yale 10, except secti
3, 5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, %, §
31,355, and 33.

Township 37, of og 10,except nect
11, 13, 15, 21, 83, 25, 97, 2031, 33, and:
the fractional parts of wetions 9, 17, and
ing South of the old Indian boundary line

That part of. fractional townsaip. 33,
South of the old Indian boundary line, of
That part of Townships 33 and 34,
northwest of the Indian boundary. line, of

de

Township 35, of range 11, except secti
7, 17, and 19.

Township 30, of range 11, except sect
3, 5, 7,9, 11.17, 10, 21, 29, and 31.

Township 37, of range U1, exeept secti
3,5, 7,9, IL, 13, 15; 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 2
31, 33, and 35,

‘That part of township 38, lying South
old Indian boundary line, of range 11, 
sections 13, 23, 25, 27, 20, 21, 33, and 3

‘That part of township 39, lying South
old Indian boundary line, of range 11.

Township 36, of range 12.

Township 37, of range 12, exeopt secti
2 5, 7,9, Ul, 13,15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27,2

Townnhip 38, of range 12, except sccti
3, 5, 7,9, 11, 13, 16, 17, 19, 21, 23,25, %
hat pan of Township 20, lying South

at part of Township 39, lyi if
old Indian boundary tine, oleae! 12, exe
tions 25, 27, ed 3S.

That part of Township 40, lying Bouth
old Indian boundary line, of range 12,

That. part. of townships 35 and 36,
TeTnaee of the Indian boundary line, of

Township 37, of rangn 13, except sectic
au? eo

Townsbip 38, of range 13, excopt sectic
3,5, 7. 9,19, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25.2%
34 Be ba is ;

‘ownships 99, of ran; except secti
9, 11, 13. iby 17; 19, 2123, 95, 27, 29, 6
an
. That part of Township 36, lying Nort
af ihe Luding pees line, or ae i
at part of township $7, lying Northy
the lndign bound ay of a le
sections 13, 14 nod 25

Fractional ‘Township 38, range 14, excey
Uonp 3, 6,7, 9, 11, 17, and 19.

Fractional township 20, mango 14, excep
esd, 6, 7, 9, 15, 17, 19, 21, 27, 2, 31

Fractions! Township 40, range 14, excep
tions 10, 21, 20, 31, and 38,

at part of fractional Township 4), of 

14, lying Sout and Fast of the old Indian 

oy line.

"Fractional Townships 37 and 38, of rang
The lands reserved by law for the uw

schools or for ather purposes will be exc!

from sale. 32°: ;

~The aale to be ka
an longer tobe kept open for two. wee!

Given under my hand, at tho City of W

ington, the twelith day of Febuary, 4

- thirty-f ea
es REW JACKSO

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 20, COLUMN 6 ---
[uncertain: Outer-edge curvature and small advertising type leave unresolved characters in this column.]
NOTICE TO Fay

ersoue claienige ee PTION :

Any of the aforiaa jayne of CLA,

HR S206 10 the mista ia a
cOIVEE, prior to the i of the Rorigat™"®
Genvnan Lisp Or, of pats, ted

Fb. 19, begs, ny

nit Bool, Shor & Leather si.
WM. 1. Taypgn ot.
AS opened an oxtensiye :
R Leather Store, on or,
few rods north of Mesarg 3
Store, ihe may be found
48 good stock, ag ca
oof  West,” which be ote eet the
mate  tail, at the lowest Prices, ¢ pelle ete
500 pairs men's coarse bourek
: 300 do. do. fine dos !
cipal lors

400 do. do. coaree Sivapd
200 do. do, fine SHOES;

300 do. Ladie

8 Gaiter, Pun
[illegible]
1,3, red a a, calf do,
bs do, do. pronella, ki
! 200 du, children's Works vat a tt Be
117, a is. riaaly Bootees;
Suie and Upper Leather i
sele cheap tor cash, m “Tf iy

WoT. Wi ma
Tk. nufacture:
the shortest notice, aij reir Wile
Shoes, which he wil] WATTANL Of the is
leather ond workmanship, wet
_ Chicago, July 8, 1234,
1 New and Cheap Gear
6 29, HE subscriber has just received fri ‘
York, the following among itker wa

fFox  in his lino, which le offer i
Hers for sag
Y, ot and Retail, very wow, Mt Peleg

Superfine Wack, Wve
n 9 WINE, green and
Peep De tilled cxssimere abe
arin cloths, and ciresys :
y Bt Pads, of
‘ Mites

ns ,

ns 1,

ns 3,
, sunlities and colors:
Might and dark Gingh i
Col’d Flouncesand freon ead es
Gauze, Garniture, and gro da map he :
French Muslin; sitk and taht vent:
6-4 and 8-4 Damask; cotton Tt D;
Brown Holland; men Date
Jents. and Ladies’ Gloves and Hog
Woollen and Canton FI its i
Reniy-mae CLOTHING, Mi
leached and brown shirt eee
Wadding and Batting: men Etag
Window Paper and Bordering;
8 W,]. 4 bales colton Yarn: 88 doy, non lat
, and  and sther DRY GOODS, beth Amen

lying Wardware,
CONSTETING 14 Pa
Reneh, moulding & sash Pan et
Socket, Hrmers, mortice and temevehios
Knoband stock Locks: Bre orktoret
Cupboard Turns and Door kyen
Curtain Pins > Brass and £125 hers
Table, pocket, butcher snd thd hag
Norfulk Latebes: Butte and Srerr,
Italian Violin Strings ;
Naile, Seedas Iran, wail ra
ails, Swedes Tron, nail rod
eythes, Pitchforks, Tin Ware, che :
la Rope, old and young hyson Tess, bow. bx
_jand lump Sugars, molasses, cefe, eaee
ofthe  whito.and brown bar soap, indigo, paul as
river,  common candles, raieins, Crockery a4 Gh
Ware, &c. JOUN alot
May, 28, 1834.

ns J,
7, 29,
a 23,

of the

nat,
D, and

ne),

Pry M°CORMICK & MOOX,_
7, 2,). Manufacturera and Wholesale Leaks

HATS,
No. 109 Jeflereon Avene,
BE subseribors keep couatan
extensive assortment of [LATE
they can wilh confidence rectang
and which will be dispomd of fs
Cash or opproved paper, of 4%
iyi sonable terms ay can ia peta
Y'PK  any regular House in the City of NewTui-
ne, Ol] Merchants of Chicago and viens und 60
are respectfully invited to eall and enueie 9
m8 3, Stork, when thes yieit Detroit, and ataed
their orders. will be gratefully retin wt
promptly executed,

ne kopt on hand or i 9. pede, eee
2 comparicon in quality of materi soit
ee nie, &e. with any manufactured 11 85
ns 1, of Now-York. : et
and) Furand Cloth CAPS, cont .
B, ly- M’CORMICK ae
‘si Detroit, March 15, 1534, ae
ing  eee
ange Carriage & Sleigh Makist
: HE. subscribers reepectfully intorm ie
lying dl jzons of Chicago and its Mar
range  they have erected a large ant ca oy
ding, for a shop, on Randolph. strmet.ae?
prepared to execute all orders in the Cum
and Sleigh making business, on ihe aot
we REP RING d hart nabee
PREPARING done on shart sa
na, BRIGGS & HUMPEBE
, 29,

nal,
A 29,

na 5,

oer

Ge SPRING: ,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT
And Soliciter in Chancery:
FFICE first door north from the Tim!
House, on earborn-etreet-
3

sana

» 29,  Te published every Wednesday in ie
Shicagro, Cook co. Hl, on Sou ae
over Mlesers Jones & King Hardwar

TERMS. os ol

Tho Chicago Democrat is prin’
tthe aize imperial eheet, and afforded He j
Town subscribers who have (heir

ying  d by the carrier $3 esi
me? ited sabecribers, ry show who receive
apers at the office, €2 5. ie!
pape ia ss wa
we!

a 5, 5 jn addition will
ify cents in adits
, pie There payment is not made AD
‘on’  Papers will not in apy instar aes
" places where we hsve no aulhorite by tht 2
ne 1,  dene the subscription is accompan
H 4)

: V any creon procuring Hix

varding the moneys
yout  over, and forwan aM
Und to a seventh copy BN ag or weit

iat §
ahee tot
wl bee

: onl me
at of] ADVERTISEMENTS ente for OXY
cept 8). for tho first, and ciavscount #i ad

quent insertion. 4° on
see:  $0 those who advertise by they

vow pours

d to this office isan
soe, whieh are inferior we
State. Books, Pamphlets, reer

exceuted with neatnet

~TRGENTS.

h Cloud. eng, OVE
tates Dann, P.M: Goleoedl
John Colian, P. M.  asetl
M. nel Eq, Spm cit

f ios W. © i
Ao Fan, Bloomington eonipit
cr Amold, B - ainfielde 3
Capt. Jov. hay eae 2%
Doct. A. W- ge
Cal. Thomar
A. Fowler, oq
