Chicago was not, when I first saw it, the cheerful, happy place it had once been. Dr. Wolcott had died. So had Lieutenant Furman, and a promising young son of Mr. Beaubien, all of them within a few weeks of each other, and the gloom of it had settled over every branch of that small social circle.

The weather was worse than anyone there could remember. In two months the sun came out and stayed out for exactly two days. As late as the second week in April, when my husband left to return to Fort Winnebago, the storms were bad enough that he and his men had to lie by two or three days in an Indian lodge and wait them out.

Robert Kinzie, Medard Beaubien and Billy Caldwell had gone off at the same time to the Calumet to hunt. The days went by and they did not come back, and after enough of them had gone by we were certain they had frozen to death out there. They walked in eventually, to our infinite joy. The only reason they had not frozen was that Robert and Caldwell had each thought to carry two blankets instead of one.

Our one recreation, when the weather allowed it at all, was to ride — through the woods on the north side of the river, or out across the prairie along the lake shore to the south.

Going north, a little bridle-path carried us along what is now Rush Street. The boughs arched over our heads the whole way, thick enough that we were often obliged to break the projecting branches of the shrubs out of our path as we rode. The little prairie west of Wright's Woods was usually where we turned back.

Going south across the prairie, we generally came upon a new-comer, Dr. Harmon, superintending the construction of a sod fence at a spot he had chosen near the shore of the lake. As the season came on he occupied himself inside that inclosure planting fruit-stones of every description, making ready a garden and an orchard for enjoyment at some future time.

We usually stopped for a little chat. The Doctor had two favorite themes: horticulture, and the certain future importance of Chicago. That it was destined to be a great city was, with him, past arguing about — and by that time, forest and prairie as the whole of it was, we had half begun to believe it ourselves.

On the pleasant afternoons that came as the season advanced we found no small amusement in pistol-firing. The place set aside for it was outside the pickets, with the mark put up on a panel in one of the bastions. The gentlemen must not be offended if I record that in the course of time the ladies acquired a degree of skill that let them, as a general thing, come off triumphant. One of them, Mrs. Hunter, was a great shot; she had brought down her grouse on the wing, to the no small delight of one of the officers, Captain Martin Scott, of raccoon celebrity.

Now and then a little excitement got up inside the fort — as when it was discovered that a settler had been selling the soldiers milk-punch instead of milk, and interfering in no small degree with the regularity and perfect discipline of the service. The first step was to drum the offender out with all the honors of war: a party-colored dress, and the Rogue's March played along behind him. The second was to put every victim of the deception into the guard-house, where the commanding officer's lady supplied them bountifully with coffee and hot cakes, by way of opening their eyes to the enormity of their offense. It is not to be wondered at that the officers sometimes complained it had become more of a contest among the soldiers who should get into the guard-house than who should keep out of it. The poor fellows knew when they were well off.

Once, on a Sunday, we were rowed up to Wolf Point to attend a religious service conducted by Father See, as he was called.

What we saw was a tall, slender man in a green frock-coat, with a pair of hands dangling out of the sleeves that gave abundant evidence, along with the rest of his dress, that he put small faith in the axiom that cleanliness is a part of holiness.

He stepped briskly up onto a little platform behind a table and began. His subject was "The fear of God."

There was a kind of fear, he told us, that was very nearly a-lee-a-nated to love — so nearly that it was not worth while splitting hairs for the difference. He then set out to describe this kind of fear. He grew more involved the further he went, and more involved still, until at last, thoroughly bewildered, he stopped and said, "Come, let's stop a little while, and clear away the brush." He unravelled the tangled thread of his ideas as well as he was able and started off again. Very soon he lost his way a second time and came to another halt. "Now," he said, wiping his forehead with a red cotton handkerchief many degrees from clean, "now, suppose we drive back a little piece." So he went back over what he wished to impress upon us, of the necessity of cherishing a fear that maketh wise unto salvation, "which fear," he said, "may we all enjoy, that together we may soar away, on the rolling clouds of aether, to a boundless and happy eternity, which is the wish of your humble servant." Then he flourished his hands abroad, made the best of dancing-school bows, and sat down.

It will be readily imagined that we found our own religious exercises at home more edifying than that, and that we confined ourselves to them thereafter.

Our brother Robert Kinzie came back from Palestine — not the Holy Land, but the seat of the Land Office — with the certificate of the family's title to that portion of Chicago since known as "Kinzie's Addition." We looked on it as establishing a home for us at some future day, if the glorious dreams of good Dr. Harmon and a few others ever came to anything. One small incident will show how moderate the anticipations of most people were at that period.

The certificate was issued in Robert's name, he having represented the family in making the application, and it described only a fractional quarter-section of one hundred and two acres instead of the full hundred and sixty — the river and Lake Michigan cutting off fifty-eight acres along the southern and eastern lines. The applicants were at liberty to select their complement of fifty-eight acres out of any unappropriated land that suited them.

"Now, my son," his mother said to him, "lay your claim on the corn-field at Wolf Point. It is fine land, and will always be valuable for cultivation, besides, as it faces down the main river, the situation will always be a convenient one."

He laughed out loud. "Hear mother!" he said. "We have just got a hundred and two acres — more than we shall ever want, or know what to do with, and now she would have me go and claim fifty-eight acres more!"

"Take my advice, my boy," she said again, "or you may live one day to regret it."

"Well, I can't see how I can ever regret not getting more than we can possibly use." And that was the end of it. The fifty-eight acres were never claimed. There was, I think, a very general impression at the time that asking for our just rights in the case would have had a grasping, covetous look about it. How much wiser five-and-twenty years have made us.

During those two months at Chicago our mother often entertained me with stories of her early life and adventures. What follows is her history of her captivity among the Senecas. I have put it in the form of a tale, but without the slightest variation from the facts as I had them from her own lips, and from those of her sister, Mrs. William Forsyth of Sandwich — the little Maggie of the story.
