The order to evacuate the post was read out on parade the next morning. It is hard to understand why Captain Heald, with a thing like that in front of him, left out the usual form of calling a council of war with his officers. The only accounting for it is that there was no harmony between himself and one of his juniors — Ensign Ronan, a high-spirited and somewhat overbearing young man, though brave, and generous.

By the middle of the day it was plain no council was going to be called. The officers went to Captain Heald themselves and asked what course he intended to take. When they heard it, they argued against it, on these grounds.

First. There was almost no chance the command would be allowed to pass through the country to Fort Wayne unharmed. It was true that some of the chiefs had opposed an attack on the fort planned the previous autumn. But everyone knew why. They had acted out of private regard for one family, Mr. Kinzie's, and not out of any general good feeling toward Americans, and in any case it was too much to expect that a handful of men could hold back a whole tribe that was thirsting for blood.

Second. The march would have to be slow, because it would move at the pace of the women and children, and there were a number of both with the detachment. Of the small force they had, some of the soldiers were superannuated and others were invalid. Since the course to be pursued had been left to the commanding officer's discretion, their advice, and it was unanimous, was to stay where they were and fortify as strongly as they could. Help from the other side of the peninsula might arrive before the British came down from Mackinac. And if it did not, it was far better to fall into British hands than to become the victims of the savages.

Captain Heald answered that the War Department had issued a special order that no post was to be surrendered without battle having been given, and that his force was totally inadequate to an engagement with the Indians. He would unquestionably be censured for remaining, he said, when there appeared to be a prospect of marching through in safety. On the whole he thought it expedient to assemble the Indians, distribute the property among them, and then ask them for an escort to Fort Wayne, with the promise of a considerable reward when they arrived. He added that he had full confidence in the friendly professions of the Indians, from whom, as from the soldiers, the fall of Mackinac had been kept a profound secret.

After that the officers held themselves apart and said little on the subject, though privately they thought Captain Heald's project little short of madness. Among the soldiers the dissatisfaction grew by the hour until it reached a high pitch of insubordination.

Once, on the parade, Captain Heald was talking with Mr. Kinzie and said, "I couldn't stay, even if I thought it best, for I have but a small store of provisions."

A soldier standing near forgot every rule of etiquette in the heat of the moment. "Why, captain," he said, "you have cattle enough to last the troops six months."

"But," replied Captain Heald, "I have no salt to preserve it with."

"Then jerk it," said the man, "as the Indians do their venison."
