Not long at all after my husband rode out, we had a visit from the White Crow, the Little Priest, and several more of the principal chiefs of the Rock River Indians. It plainly threw them to learn that their Father was away from home, even when they were told his errand was to go and get the silver. We sent for Paquette, and he interpreted for us what they had come about.

They had come to tell us that the Sauk chief Black Hawk and his band — who under an earlier treaty had gone across and settled west of the Mississippi some time before — were back on their old homes and hunting-grounds. They had said plainly that they did not intend to give them up again, and that they meant to drive off the white settlers who had begun to move onto them.

The driving off, in fact, the chief had already done. It was said he had brought some of the Pottowattamies over to him, and there was reason to be afraid he could talk some of the Winnebagoes into doing the same.

The chiefs had come to take counsel with their Father, and to give him their word that they would do everything in their power to keep their young men quiet. They had heard that troops were being raised down among the whites in Illinois, and they hoped their own people would have the sense to stay clear of the trouble. And they asked that their Father, when he came back, would see to it that the soldiers did not meddle with them, so long as they stayed quiet and behaved in a friendly way.

White Crow seemed particularly set on making me understand one thing: that if any danger came while Shaw-nee-aw-kee was gone, he would come with his people and protect me and my family. I believed him. He had never in anything shown himself other than an upright and honorable man.

Even so. Indian troubles that close, and our guardian and protector somewhere out on the lakes, made for a great many hours in which none of us said much. It was not until word came that the Sauks and Foxes had gone back peaceably west of the Mississippi that we could put the fear down altogether.
