Whatever the Christian missionaries had done, and they had worked hard at it, they had made very little headway in lighting up anybody's mind on the doctrines of the Gospel. While we were living at the Portage, Mr. Mazzuchelli, a Roman Catholic priest, came up on a missionary visit with Miss Elizabeth Grignon along as interpreter, and after some instruction from him about forty of them agreed to be baptized. They were given Christian names, which pleased them very much, and little plated crucifixes, which pleased them more. The women wore them around their necks. There was real devotion in the way they handled those crosses, but I had not enough of the language to learn from any of them whether they understood the first thing about what the symbol was meant to carry. This much is certain. Not one of them asked to learn our language so as to know the Saviour better, and not one of them showed the least anxiety to be told anything more about him than the missionary had managed to say in his short stay.

One of the women, who had been given the name Charlotte, said she wanted to learn how white women kept house, and asked me, through Madame Paquette, whether she might come on washing-day and learn our way of doing the business from my servants. We gave her a tub, and my woman showed her by signs and example what she was to do. I was more than a little curious to see how it was going, so after a while I went out to the kitchen where they all were. Charlotte was standing at her tub, scouring and rubbing away with everything in her at her little crucifix. Two other women sat on the floor beside her, watching her do it.

"That is the work she has been at for the last half-hour," said Josette, out of all patience. "She'll never learn to wash."

Charlotte did then fall to in earnest, and went at the washing so hard it looked as though she meant to pull her own arms out of their sockets.

After a time I decided she must be worn out with work she was not used to, and I did what everyone did in those days — what I had always seen done at home on washing-day, what I imagine was simply what housekeepers did. I went to the dining-room closet meaning to bring her a glass of wine, or brandy and water. My cupboard turned out to be in the condition of poor Mother Hubbard's. There was nothing of the kind in it anywhere, only a bottle of orange shrub.

I poured out a wineglassful of that and carried it to her. She took it with obvious pleasure. Then, with it already on the way to her lips, she stopped. She said one word — "Whiskey!" — and handed it straight back to me. I would have pressed it on her even so, because in my ignorance I honestly believed a cordial was what she needed. She pointed to her crucifix, shook her head, and went back to her tub.

I took that as a lesson worth more than twenty sermons. It was the first time in my life I had seen anyone refuse spirituous liquor on a religious principle, and it left a mark on me that I have never lost.
