There was a young man named Shee-shee-banze, the Little Duck, and he was paddling his canoe along the shore of the lake.

Two girls came down to the edge of the water, and when they saw him the elder said to the younger, "Let us call to him to take us a sail."

It has to be said that in all Indian stories where two or more sisters are the persons of the drama, the elder is invariably represented as silly, ridiculous, and disgusting, and the younger as wise and beautiful.

In this case the younger remonstrated. "Oh, no," she said. "Let us not do such a thing. What will he think of us?"

But the other persevered and called out to him, "Ho! come and take us into your canoe." The young man obeyed. He brought the canoe in to the shore and took them aboard with him.

"Who are you?" asked the elder sister.

"I am Way-gee-mar-kin," he replied. "The great chief."

Now this Way-gee-mar-kin was something of a fairy. When he was surrounded by his followers and had a mind to confer favors on them, he had a habit of coughing slightly, and out of his mouth would fly quantities of silver brooches and ear-bobs and other ornaments, for which it was the custom of his people to scramble, each of them striving, as in more civilized life, to come away with more than his share.

So the elder sister said, "If you are Way-gee-mar-kin, let us see you cough."

Shee-shee-banze had a few of these silver ornaments, which he had got by scrambling for them, and which he kept stowed away in the sides of his mouth in case of emergency. He gave two or three spasmodic coughs and brought forth a few of them, and the girl seized on them eagerly.

They paddled on, and after a time a fine noble elk came out of the forest and down to the water to drink.

"What is that?" asked the spokeswoman, for the younger sister sat silent and modest the whole time.

"It is my dog, that I hunt with."

"Call him to us, that I may see him."

Shee-shee-banze called. The elk turned and fled into the woods.

"He doesn't seem to obey you, though."

"No. It is because you inspire him with disgust, and so he flies from you."

Soon a bear appeared at the water's edge.

"What is that?"

"One of my servants."

Again he was asked to call the creature, and again the call was disregarded, and the same reason as before was assigned for it.

Their excursion came to an end at last. There had been a little magic in it. Although the young girls had believed themselves to be sitting in a canoe, there was in reality no canoe at all. They had only imagined it to be so.

Now, Shee-shee-banze lived with his grandmother, and it was to her lodge that he conducted his young friends.

They stood outside while he went in.

"Grandmother," he said, "I have brought you two young girls, who will be your daughters-in-law. Invite them into your lodge."

At that the old woman called out, "Ho! come in," and they entered. They were made welcome and treated to the best of everything.

In the meantime the real Way-gee-mar-kin, the great chief, was making preparations for a grand feast. When he was sending his messenger out with the invitations he said to him, "Be very particular to bid Shee-shee-banze to the feast, for, as he is the smallest and meanest person in the tribe, you must use double ceremony with him, or he will be apt to think himself slighted."

Shee-shee-banze was sitting in his lodge with his new friends when the messenger arrived.

"Ho! Shee-shee-banze," he cried, "you are invited to a great feast that Way-gee-mar-kin is to give tonight, to all his subjects."

Shee-shee-banze took no notice of the invitation whatever. He only whistled and pretended not to hear. The messenger said the words over again, and then, finding that no attention was being paid to them, he went his way.

The young girls looked at each other during this scene, greatly astonished. At last the elder spoke.

"What does this mean?" she said. "Why does he call you Shee-shee-banze, and invite you to visit Way-gee-mar-kin?"

"Oh," said Shee-shee-banze, "it is one of my followers that always likes to be a little impudent. I am obliged to put up with it sometimes, but you noticed that I treated him with silent contempt."

The messenger went back to the chief and reported the manner in which the invitation had been received.

"Oh," said the good-natured chief, "it is because he feels that he is poor and insignificant. Go back again — call him by my name, and make a flourishing speech to him."

The messenger fulfilled his mission exactly as he had been bid.

"Way-gee-mar-kin," he said, pompously, "a great feast is to be given tonight, and I am sent most respectfully to solicit the honor of your company!"

"Did I not tell you?" said Shee-shee-banze to the maidens. Then, nodding with careless condescension, he added, "Tell them I'll come."

That night he dressed himself in his very best paint and feathers and ornaments; but before he set out, he took his grandmother aside.

"Be sure," he said, "that you watch these young people closely until I come back. Shut up your lodge tight, tight. Let no one come in or go out, and, above all things, don't go to sleep."

Those orders given, he went his way.

The grandmother tried her best to stay awake. As the night wore on and she felt herself getting sleepier and sleepier, she took a strong cord and laced it back and forth across the mat that hung before the entrance of the lodge, the way they lace up the mouths of their bags. Then, having seen everything secure and the girls quiet in their bed, she lay down and soon fell into a comfortable sleep.

The young girls, in the meanwhile, were dying of curiosity to know what had become of Shee-shee-banze, and as soon as they were certain the old lady was asleep they made ready to follow him and see what was going on. They were afraid, though, that the grandmother might wake and find them gone. So they took two logs of wood and put them under the blanket and arranged them to present the appearance of people sleeping quietly. Then they cut the cords that fastened the door, and, guided by the sounds of the music and the dancing and the merry-making, they soon found their way to the house of Way-gee-mar-kin.

When they came in they saw the chief seated on a throne, surrounded by light and splendor. Everything was joy and amusement. Crowds of courtiers filled the apartment, all of them dressed in the most brilliant array. The strangers looked around for their friend Shee-shee-banze. He was nowhere to be seen.

Now and then the chief would cough, and a shower of silver ornaments and precious things would fly out in all directions, and instantly a scramble would begin among the company to gather them up and appropriate them.

As they rushed forward that way, the brides-elect saw their poor little friend crowded up into a corner, where nobody took any notice of him except to push him aside, or to step on him whenever he was in the way. He gave out piteous little squeaks as one and another of them maltreated him. He was too busy taking care of himself to perceive that the two he had left snug at home in the lodge were witnesses of the whole of it.

At last the signal was given for the company to retire — all but the two young damsels, on whom Way-gee-mar-kin had set his eye, and to whom he had sent, by one of his assistants, great offers to induce them to stay with him and become his wives.

Poor Shee-shee-banze came home to his lodge, and what was his consternation to find the door standing open.

"Ho! grandmother," he cried, "is this the way you keep watch?"

The old woman started up. "There are my daughters-in-law," she said, and pointed to the two logs of wood. Shee-shee-banze threw himself down on the ground between them. His back was broken by coming so violently in contact with them, but he did not mind that. He was thinking only of revenge, and of getting his sweethearts back.

He waited only long enough to get a powerful poison and prepare it, and then he stole back to the wigwam of Way-gee-mar-kin. Everything was silent. He crept in without making the slightest noise. There lay the chief, with a young girl on either side of him.

All three of them were sound asleep. The chief was lying on his back with his mouth wide open. Before he knew anything about it the poison was down his throat, and Shee-shee-banze had retreated quietly to his own lodge.

The next morning the cry went through the village that Way-gee-mar-kin had been found dead in his bed. It was attributed, of course, to over-indulgence at the feast. Everything was grief and lamentation. "Let us go and tell poor Shee-shee-banze," said one of them. "He was so fond of Way-gee-mar-kin."

They found him sitting on a bank, fishing. He had been up since the peep of day, making his preparations for receiving the intelligence.

He had caught two or three fish, and had taken out their bladders and filled them with blood and tied them under his arm. When the friends of Way-gee-mar-kin caught sight of him they called out, "Oh! Shee-shee-banze — your friend, Way-gee-mar-kin, is dead!"

With a gesture of despair Shee-shee-banze drew his knife and plunged it — not into his heart, but into the bladders full of blood that he had prepared. As he fell to the ground, apparently lifeless, the messengers began to reproach themselves. "Oh! why did we tell him so suddenly? We might have known he wouldn't survive it. Poor Shee-shee-banze! he loved Way-gee-mar-kin so."

To their great surprise, the day after the funeral, Shee-shee-banze came walking toward the wigwam of the dead chief. As he walked he sang, or rather chaunted, to a monotonous strain, the following: "Way-gee-mar-kin is dead, is dead, I know who killed him.

I guess it was I — I guess it was I."

The whole village was roused. Everybody flew in pursuit of the murderer, but he evaded them and escaped to a place of safety.

Soon after that he appeared again, mincing as he walked, and singing to the same strain as before: "If you wish to take and punish me, Let the widows come and catch me."

That seemed a good idea, and the young women were recommended to go and entice the culprit into the village, so that the friends of the deceased could lay hold of him.

They went forth on their errand. Shee-shee-banze would suffer them to come close, and then he would dance off a little way; now he would let them come quite near him, and then he would retreat a little before them, singing the whole time, "Come, pretty widows, come and catch me."

So he decoyed them on, using honeyed words and flattering speeches now and then, until he had gained their consent to come back with him to his lodge and take up their abode with him.

The friends of the murdered chief were scandalized at such inconstancy, and resolved to punish all three of them as soon as they could be caught.

They surrounded his lodge with cries and threatenings, but Shee-shee-banze and his two brides had managed to elude their vigilance and get to his canoe, which lay in the river close at hand.

They were hardly on board when the escape was discovered. The whole troop flew after them. Some plunged into the stream and seized hold of the canoe. In the struggle it was upset; but the moment they touched the water — whether from the magical properties of the canoe, or from the necromantic skill of the grandmother — they were all transformed into ducks, and flew quacking away.

Since that time the water-fowl of this species are always found in companies of three: two females and a male.

The Canard de France, or Mallard, and the Brancheuse, or Wood Duck, have different habits from these, and fly in pairs. Indeed the constancy of the latter is said to be so great that if he loses his mate he never takes another partner, but goes mourning to the end of his days.
