The payment was over and the Indians had dispersed, and we set about settling down quietly in our little home. Then a new source of disturbance arose.

My husband's accounts of disbursements as Agent of the Winnebagoes, which he had forwarded to the Department at Washington, had never arrived there. He received notice of the fact in due course — that is to say, such notice as could reach us at all, by the circuitous and uncertain mode of conveyance which was then the only communication we had with the Eastern world. If the vouchers for the former expenditures could not be produced, along with those for the recent payment of fifteen thousand dollars of annuity money, it might place him in a very awkward position indeed. He decided to go at once to Washington and carry the duplicate accounts himself.

"Should you like to go and see your father and mother," he said to me one morning, "and show them how the West agrees with you?"

After a year's separation it was the most joyful suggestion in the world, and in a few days everything was in readiness for our departure.

We had a visitor at the time — Miss Brush, of Detroit, who had come up from Green Bay with Mr. and Mrs. Whitney and Miss Frances Henshaw on an excursion to the Mississippi. Our little India-rubber house had managed to stretch itself to accommodate the whole party for the length of their very pleasant visit.

The arrival of two young ladies had been, as anyone may imagine, a godsend to the unmarried lieutenants; and when Miss Brush — tired of the trip, or else intimidated by the snow, which fell eight inches deep on the fourth of October — determined to give up the rest of her excursion and accept our pressing invitation to stay with us until her friends came back, we were looked upon as public benefactors. She was now to accompany us to Green Bay, and possibly on to Detroit.

Our voyage down the river passed without incident, and we reached Green Bay just as the whole place was astir over the expected arrival of one of Mr. Newbery's schooners. That was an event, and the interest in it ran from Fort Howard the length of the settlement down to Dickenson's. To some the schooner would bring friends and to some supplies; to the ladies she brought the fashions and to the gentlemen the news, for she was the bearer of the mails — not for that place alone, but for the whole of the upper country.

In a few days the vessel came in. She had a mail aboard for Fort Winnebago, letters being carried overland to that place, by way of Niles's Settlement and Chicago, only in the winter season.

By virtue of his office as Postmaster my husband opened the mail-bag and took possession of his own letters. One of them told him that the missing accounts had turned up at the Department, and that all was satisfactory there. The next one I remember as a plain drop of the heart. My parents had gone to Kentucky for the winter. Not to any city, nor to any place a person could reach, but up the Sandy, and over among the mountains of Virginia, hunting up old land-claims belonging to my grandfather's estate.

It was vain to hope to follow them. We could hardly expect to come up with them in the short time we could be absent from home — not even if we had at our disposal the lucid directions once given to my father by an old settler, during his own explorations through that wild region.

"You must go up Tug," the man had told him, "and down Troublesome, and fall over on to Kingdom-come." We did not think it advisable to undertake an expedition of that description, and so we made up our minds to retrace our steps to Fort Winnebago.
