Our next day's stage was from the Kakalin to the Butte des Morts, where a man named Knaggs lived. The country was rough and wild, much like the ground we had passed through the spring before in going from Hamilton's diggings to Kellogg's Grove; but we had the good fortune to have Wish-tay-yun for our guide instead of Uncle Billy, so that we were able to make our way with some degree of moderation.

We had traveled only forty miles when we reached Knaggs's, and yet I was both cold and worn out, so that the cosy little room where we found Mrs. Knaggs, and the bright fire in it, were the most cheering objects in the world. We had broken our fast since morning with nothing but a few crackers carried in our pockets, and I must own that we did ample justice to her coffee and her cakes, and to the venison-steaks and the bear's meat besides — the last of which I had never tasted before.

Supper over, we looked about us for a place of repose. The room we had eaten in was small, just large enough to hold a bed, a table set against the wall, and the few chairs we had been sitting on. There was no room for a shakedown of any kind.

"Where can you put us for the night?" my husband asked Mr. Knaggs, when he made his appearance.

"Why, there is no place that I know of, unless you can camp down in the old building outside."

We went out to look at it. It was one room, bare and dirty. A huge chimney with a few brands burning in it took up nearly one whole side of the place. Against another wall a rickety sort of bunk had been built. That was the only vestige of furniture to be seen anywhere. The floor lay thick with mud and dirt, and in the middle of it, near the fire, an old Indian was sitting with a pan of boiled corn in his lap, scooping it up with both hands and devouring it with the utmost voracity.

We soon discovered that he was blind. At the sound of footsteps and voices he gathered the dish of food in close against himself, and began some morose grumbling. But when he was told that it was Shaw-nee-aw-kee who was speaking to him, his features relaxed into a more agreeable expression, and he even held the dish out and invited us to share what was in it.

"But are we to stay here?" I asked. "Can we not sleep out-of-doors?"

"We have no tent," my husband replied, "and the weather is too cold to risk the exposure without one."

"I could sit in a chair all night, by the fire."

"Then you wouldn't be able to ride to Bellefontaine tomorrow."

There was no alternative. The only thing Mr. Knaggs could furnish in the shape of bedding was a small bear-skin. The bunk was a trifle less filthy than the floor, so on its boards we spread first the skin and then our saddle-blankets, and with a pair of saddle-bags for a bolster I wrapped myself in my cloak and resigned myself to my distasteful accommodations.

Simply changing position from the one I had held all day probably brought me some rest, but sleep I could not. Even on a softer and pleasanter couch there would have been no sleeping through the snoring of the old Indian and the two or three companions who had joined him, or through his frequent querulous exclamations whenever he felt himself encroached upon in the darkness.

It was a relief to get up with the early morning and prepare for the day's travel. Where our fellow-travelers had bestowed themselves I never learned, but they had evidently fared no better than we had. They were in fine spirits nonetheless. We took our breakfast cheerfully and were ferried over the river, to go on from that point along the trail to Bellefontaine, twelve miles distant from Fort Winnebago.
