The next morning came up hot and sultry. The mosquitoes, which the rain had kept off through the night, began to make up their losses, and they tormented us unmercifully.

After a breakfast that was both uncomfortable and unpalatable, the first question was what we were to do with ourselves. Our boat lay under water at the foot of the hill, half-way up the rapids. The nearest home among the Waubanakees was some miles off, and there was no way of reaching it except by an Indian canoe, if any of our present friends and neighbors would be obliging enough to bring one for our use. Even then it was doubtful whether boats enough could be found to carry all of our numerous party back to Green Bay.

In the middle of these perplexing consultations, a whoop came from beyond the hill, which slopes away to the north there at the head of the rapids.

"There is John! That is certainly his voice!" cried more than one of the company.

It was my husband, and in a moment he was standing among us. Never was an arrival more opportune, or more plainly providential.

He had not learned our plans — the unsettled state of the country had kept us from getting word to him — and he had come provided with a boat, to take us back to Fort Winnebago.

Our drying operations, which we had started again that morning, were cut short. Everything was shuffled away as fast as hands could do it, and in an incredibly short time we had been transferred to the other boat, which lay quietly above the Chûte, and were pulling away toward Winnebago Lake.

We had resolved to go no farther than the neighborhood of the lake, where the breeze would make the mosquitoes less intolerable, and then to stop and make one more attempt at drying our clothing. So when we reached a beautiful high bank near the Little Butte, we stopped for that purpose, unpacked the trunks again, and soon every bush and twig was fluttering with the spoils of the cruel waves.

We had hardly disposed of the last rag and ribbon when we heard the tramp of horses, and then loud shouts and cheering ringing through the forest.

A company of about twenty-five horsemen came riding into the middle of us, banners flying, veils streaming from their hats, arms glittering in the sun. They wanted, amid greetings and roars of laughter, to know the nature and the reasons of our singular state of confusion.

It was Colonel Stambough and Alexander Irwin, of Green Bay, with a company of young volunteers and a whooping band of Menomonees behind them, all bound for the seat of war. We comforted them with the assurance that by this time the victories were all won and the scalps taken. They expressed a hope that there were yet a few laurels to be earned, bade us adieu, and pushed on rapidly with their march.

We crossed Lake Winnebago by the clear, beautiful light of a summer moon. The soft air was just enough to swell the sail, and so spare the men their labor at the oar.

The witchery of the hour was not, however, enough to make us give up our rest after the heat and the annoyances of the day, and so we disposed ourselves betimes to be packed away in the center of the boat. How it was accomplished, not one of that numerous company could have told you. If any accident had happened to disturb the arrangement, I am sure it would have been a Chinese puzzle to get us all back into our places. The men on the outside had much the best of it, and we rather envied those who were off watch their ability to snore and change position as the humor took them.

We reached Powell's just in time to have gone ashore and made our breakfast, if we had had anything to make it out of. We had hoped to get supplies here, having lived until now on what remained of my husband's ample stock. That stock was so nearly gone that when we found the mess-basket could not be replenished at this place, we began to talk of putting ourselves on allowance.

The wet bread, of which there was still an ample store, had, as may readily be imagined, fermented under a July sun. The tea, in spite of our careful efforts at drying it on newspapers and pieces of board, had gone musty and was unfit for use. There was literally nothing left except the salted meat and a few crackers, hardly enough for the present day.

So the men were urged to make all the speed they could, that we might reach Gleason's, at Lake Puckaway, in good season the following day.

In the evening, when we stopped to take our tea at a beautiful little opening among the trees, we found our old enemies, the mosquitoes, worse than ever. We had to put on cloaks and gloves and tie our veils close around our throats, and only ventured to introduce a cracker or a cup of tea under this protection in the most stealthy manner.

The men rowed well and brought us to Gleason's about eleven o'clock the next day. We were greeted with the most enthusiastic demonstrations by my old friend La Grosse Américaine, who had come here from Bellefontaine.

"Oh, Mrs. Armstrong," we cried, "get us some breakfast — we are famishing!"

Then who should appear but our faithful Mâtâ, driving the old calèche in which we were in the habit of making our little excursions in the neighborhood of the Fort. He had ridden over hoping to meet us, on the idea that some of us would prefer this way of reaching home.

With provident thoughtfulness, he had brought tea, roasted coffee, fresh butter, eggs, and the like, in case we should be short of such luxuries at that advanced stage of our trip.

His "Good-morning, Madame Johns! How do you dos?" was a pleasant and a welcome sound.

We could not wait for our breakfast, but gathered around La Grosse Américaine like a parcel of children while she cut and spread slices of bread-and-butter for us.

When the regular meal was over, it was decided that sister Margaret should take Josette and go back with Mâtâ to open the house and make it ready to receive us. It had been the head-quarters of militia, Indians and stragglers of various descriptions the whole time we were gone, and we could easily imagine that a little misrule and unreason might have had its way there for that period.

We had seventy-two miles yet to go, by the devious winding course of the river — first over the beautiful waters of Lac de Boeuf, and then through the low marshy lands that spread away to the Portage. One of the gentlemen made an attempt to work up a little excitement among the ladies as we came near the place where it was thought the Sauks might cross on their way to the Chippewa country.

"Who knows," he said, gravely, "but they may be lurking in this neighborhood yet? If so, we shall probably have some signal. We must be on the alert!"

Some of the ladies began to turn pale and look about them. Then came an interval of perfect silence, and out of it a low, prolonged whistle. There was so much agitation, and even actual terror, that the mischievous author of the trick had to confess on the spot, and take a hearty scolding for the pain he had caused.

Just before sunset of the second day from Gleason's, we reached our home. Everything was radiant with neatness and good order. With the efficient help of our good Manaigre and his wife, the house had been whitewashed from the roof down to the door-sill, thoroughly scrubbed and cleansed, the carpets unpacked and spread upon the floors, the furniture arranged, and, last but not least, a noble supper was smoking on the board by the time we had made, once more, a civilized toilet.

Many of our friends from the Fort were there to greet us, and a happier or more thankful party has seldom been gathered anywhere.
