The storm got worse. The rain came down in torrents, and the thunder and the lightning began to come one on top of the other with a speed that was frightening. My sister went for the Frenchman to wake him. "Get up, Vitelle, quick," she cried, in French. "Run up the bank for Mâtâ and Mr. Arthur — tell them to come and get us instantly."

He did not answer her. He went down on his knees instead and began calling on the Virgin at the top of his voice.

"Don't wait for the Virgin, but go as quickly as possible. Do you not see we shall all be killed?"

"Oh! not for the world, madame, not for the world," said Vitelle, pushing his head into a pack of furs, "would I go up that bank in this storm." And from inside the furs he set about crying to every saint in the calendar.

It was awful. The roar of the thunder and the flash of the lightning all round us were like a park of artillery firing without stopping. I got my cloak out, with some difficulty, and wrapped myself and Josette in it. Sister Margaret did the same for Edwin.

"Oh, madame," said the poor little girl, her teeth going with cold and fright, "won't we be drowned?"

"Very well," said my sister to the Frenchman. "You see that Madame John is at the last agony — if you won't go for help I must, and Monsieur John must know that you left his wife to perish."

That was more than Vitelle could carry. "If I must, I must," he said, and with one desperate bound he was over the side and onto the shore and going up that hill for all he was worth.

It was only a few minutes before a whole posse came flying down the bank, though it felt like an age from where we sat. The lightning was so constant that everything showed as plainly as in daylight. Mâtâ's curly hair was standing straight up off his head, and his eyes rolled at the sight of us with a kind of ghastly astonishment.

"Oh, my God, Madame Johns! what would Monsieur Johns say, to see you nows?" he cried, and got me up in his arms and carried me up the hill. Arthur came behind with sister Margaret, and two of the others had Edwin and Josette. Nobody carried Vitelle. He had been careful not to risk his precious life by going down to the boat a second time.

At the cabin where Arthur and Mâtâ had been lodged, a fire was got going, though not easily, and our trunks were brought up from the boat, and at last we were able to get out of our drenched clothes and the children out of theirs and into something better. Then we lay down on the clean, homely bed and slept until daylight.
