The ceremonies of the surrender were gone through, and still the Indians did not disperse. They stayed on near the Portage, camped in the constant expectation of the annuity money they had been summoned there to receive. The day on which Governor Porter was to set out and bring it was put off a week, and then another week, and then another. I have thought since about what he might have done differently if he could have seen, from where he sat, the whole length of what that delay was going to cost. He would possibly have been prompter. He was not.

There were several reasons why an early payment mattered. The Winnebagoes had abandoned their own grounds that spring out of a desperate anxiety not to appear, to any white eye, to be fraternizing with the Sauks. So they had planted nothing that year. No gardens. No corn-fields. They had no provisions in hand either for the day they were living in or for the winter coming, nothing but their scanty stores of wild rice, and the rice was going down while they sat at the Portage and waited. If the hunting failed through the winter and the spring, they would have nothing at all.

In the second place, the rations the Agent had been permitted by the Government to deal out to them now and then had been cut off. The Commissary had run short. The frequent levies of militia through the summer campaign, and the reinforcement of the garrison by the troops from Fort Howard, had drawn so heavily on the stores at this post that everything issued now had to be counted out with the most rigid economy.

My husband had seen it coming. As soon as the war ended he commissioned Mr. Kercheval, then sutler at Fort Howard, to procure him a couple of boat-loads of corn, to be distributed among the Indians. Unfortunately there was no corn to be had out of Michigan. It had to be brought from Ohio, and in those days business was never done in a hurry; and by the time it finally reached Green Bay the navigation of the Fox River had closed over it. It sat there. It would be brought up the following spring.

Every day wore on and the silver did not appear. At last their Father advised them to scatter to their hunting-grounds and get food, with the promise that they should be summoned the instant Governor Porter arrived. They took the advice and went.

While they had been in our neighborhood they had asked, more than once, for leave to dance the scalp-dance in front of our door. I know nothing that can be imagined to match it. The scalps are stretched on little hoops, or frames, and carried on the ends of slender poles, and these are brandished about through the figures of the dance, with cries and shouts and furious gestures. The women begin as spectators. Then the scene takes them, and the music, which their own discordant notes are making more deafening by the minute, and they rush in, seize the scalps out of the hands of the owners, and toss them frantically about, screaming and yelling. I have seen as many as forty or fifty scalps in a single dance. On one occasion a man came quite near me carrying his, and I looked up, and saw that the hair on it was long and fair, and had plainly belonged to a woman. Another carried the skin of a human hand, stretched and prepared with as much care as if it had been some costly jewel. Sometimes they danced by moonlight. Those were the worst.
