It was a bright morning in autumn when word reached the authorities: the chiefs of the nation meant to come in to the Agency and hand over the suspected men as prisoners to the Americans.

By ten o'clock there was something to see on the Portage road. A crowd was moving along it toward us. At that distance we could make out strong color, and the glitter of arms; as the crowd came nearer we could make out something else as well, white objects of a kind we did not know.

On the platform before the door of our mansion, Mr. Kinzie was joined by General Dodge, by Major Plympton, and by an officer or two besides. They took their chairs there and waited to receive the party. The rest of us took the window, where there was both seeing and hearing to be had.

The line came up the hill and turned toward us at a slow march. It was a grand and solemn sight. In front walked a number of the principal chiefs in their most brilliant array. Behind them came the prisoners. Every one of them was clothed in white cotton, in token of their innocence, and belted at the waist with a girdle. A drum and the shee-shee-qua kept time beneath the death-song they were chaunting. They had put on no paint and no ornament of any kind. Their faces were grave and thoughtful, and the moment had earned that gravity: what they knew of the customs of the whites amounted to very little, and that little was not of a sort to make a man cheerful. Nothing but their Father's word that they should have strict justice would have been likely to bring them to meet the engagements of the nation in this fashion.

Behind them again came the remainder of the procession, a long train of Winnebagoes turned out in their holiday garb.

The chiefs came up first, and the gentlemen who were standing ready gave them their hands. The prisoners came after, and the officers greeted them in the same way. Then the prisoners held out their hands to their Father, and he would not take them.

"No," he said. "You have come here accused of great crimes - of having assisted in taking the lives of some of the defenceless settlers. When you have been tried by the laws of the land, and been proved innocent, then your Father will give you his hand."

The words made them graver still. They seemed to find in them a sign that their Father also held them guilty. They drew back a little and sat down on the ground in a row, saying nothing, facing him and the officers. The other Indians settled into a circle about them, all but the one-eyed chief Kau-ray-kau-say-kah, the White Crow, on whom the duty of handing the prisoners over to the Agent had been laid.

He spoke. His countrymen, he said, "asserted their innocence of the charges preferred against them, but were quite willing to be tried by the laws of white men. He hoped they wouldn't be detained long, but that the matter would be investigated soon, and that they would come out of it clear and white."

The answer given him was that the whole business would be conducted fairly and impartially, precisely as it would be conducted if the accused were white men; and to that was added a hope: that they would prove to have been good citizens and true, peaceful children of their Great Father, the President.

With that concluded, White Crow asked leave for one thing more. He had a medal from the President, given him as a mark of friendship, and he wished to transfer it to his son, who stood at his side. The nation had already chosen the young man to fill the office of chief, which the father wanted resigning. Paquette interpreted the speeches made on the occasion. The son's demeanor was modest, the father's manner dignified and, throughout, full of feeling; together they made the ceremony a highly impressive one. Then the old chief lifted the medal from his own neck and hung it about his son's, and spoke him a few words suited to the moment. I think there was no one present who saw it unmoved.

All through these ceremonies I had been reading the countenances of the prisoners where they sat on the ground in front of me. With one exception they were open and calm and had in them the look of conscious innocence. Of that one exception I could not deny that reasonable doubts might be entertained. One of them was remarkably fine-looking. Another was a boy of seventeen at the very most, and while the medal was passing from the one neck to the other he turned his eyes from father to son, and listened to what the speakers uttered, with an air and an expression of interest and satisfaction that were almost a child's.

The ceremonies over, a file of soldiers conducted them away and committed them to the dungeon of the guard-house, to be held there until such time as they should be summoned before the court appointed to try their cause. Our hearts felt sad for them.
