It had been arranged that Judge Doty should come with us in our boat as far as the Butte des Morts. His attendant would be waiting there with horses, to carry him on to Mineral Point, where he was to hold court.

It was a bright and beautiful morning when we left his pleasant home to begin our passage up the Fox River. Captain Harney meant to stay a few days longer at the Bay, but he came to escort us down to the boat and instal us in all its comforts.

He helped me along over the ploughed ground and the other inequalities in our way to the river-bank, where the boat lay, and as we went he told me how impatiently Mrs. Twiggs was waiting for me. She was the wife of the commanding officer, and since the past spring she had been the only white lady at Fort Winnebago. She wanted a companion and a friend. We had met in New York shortly after her marriage, so we were not quite strangers to each other. I felt perfectly sure of how it would go. When there were two of our sex there — when my piano was safely landed — when the Post Library we had purchased was unpacked — when everything was fairly arranged and settled, we would be, far away in the wilderness as we were, the happiest little circle imaginable. Every anticipation I had was of the most sanguine and cheerful character.

What lay waiting for us was a moderate-sized Mackinac boat with a crew of soldiers, and our own three voyageurs besides — a dark-looking structure some thirty feet in length. Amidships was a frame-work of slight posts supporting a roof of canvas, with curtains of the same material that could be let down at the sides and the ends, after the manner of a country stage-coach, or rolled up to let in the light and the air.

In the middle of this little cabin, or saloon, they set the box containing my piano, and on top of it a mattress, which was to be our divan through the day and our place of repose at night if the weather ever proved too wet or unpleasant for encamping. The boxes of silver were stowed next — the silver with which my husband was to pay the annuities due his red children by treaty-stipulation. Our mess-basket was put within convenient reach. We had also bought two large square covered baskets from the Waubanakees, or New York Indians, to hold our various necessary articles of outward clothing and bedding, and to serve at the same time as very convenient little work-tables or dinner-tables.

As a true daughter of New England, I need hardly say I had not forgotten to supply myself with knitting-work and embroidery. Books and pencils went without saying.

Most of our furniture, along with the various housekeeping articles we had bought in New York and Detroit, was to follow in another boat, in the charge of men whose professed business it was to take cargoes safely up the rapids and on to Fort Winnebago. That was an enterprise requiring some three weeks of time and an enormous amount of labor, so that the owners of the goods transported might count themselves happy to receive them at all in the end, however wet, broken, and dilapidated their condition might be. That was why we took our choicest possessions with us, even at the cost of being a little crowded.

Until then I had never seen a gentleman wearing a colored shirt. A spotless white collar and bosom was one of those notions that Boston, and New England folks generally, entertained of what was becoming in a gentleman's toilette. Mrs. Cass had laughingly forewarned me that not only calico shirts but patch-work pillow-cases were an indispensable part of a traveling equipment, and, thanks to the taste and skill of some tidy little Frenchwoman, I found our divan-pillows all dressed in the brightest and most variegated garb.

The Judge and my husband were gay with the deepest of blue and pink. Each of them was provided, besides, with a bright red cap — a bonnet rouge, or tuque, as the voyageurs call it — which, out of respect for the lady, was to be put on only when a hearty dinner, a dull book, or the want of exercise made an afternoon nap indispensable.

The Judge was an admirable traveling companion. He had lived many years in the country. He had been with General Cass on his expedition to the head-waters of the Mississippi, and he had a vast fund of anecdote about early times, customs, and inhabitants.

I happen to remember some instances he gave of the way justice was administered in those days.

There was an old Frenchman at the Bay named Réaume, excessively ignorant and grasping, though otherwise tolerably good-natured. This man was appointed justice of the peace. Two men once appeared before him, the one as plaintiff and the other as defendant. The justice listened patiently to the complaint of the one and the defense of the other. Then he rose, and with dignity pronounced his decision.

"You are both wrong. You, Bois-vert," to the plaintiff, "you bring me one load of hay, and you, Crély," to the defendant, "you bring me one load of wood, and now the matter is settled." It does not appear that any exceptions were taken to this verdict.

That anecdote led to another, and the scene of this one was Prairie du Chien, on the Mississippi.

There was a Frenchman there, a justice of the peace, universally known by the name of Old Boilvin. His office stood just outside the walls of the fort, and it was much the fashion among the officers to lounge in there of a morning, to find sport for an idle hour and to take a glass of brandy-and-water with the old gentleman, which he called taking a little quelque-chose.

A soldier named Fry had been accused of stealing and killing a calf belonging to M. Rolette, and the constable, a bricklayer by the name of Bell, had been dispatched to arrest the culprit and bring him in for trial.

While the gentlemen were paying their customary morning visit to the justice, a noise was heard in the entry, and then a knock at the door.

"Come in," cried Old Boilvin, rising and walking toward the door.

Bell. — Here, sir, I have brought Fry to you, as you ordered.

Justice. — Fry, you great rascal! What for you kill M. Rolette's calf?

Fry. — I didn't kill M. Rolette's calf.

Justice (shaking his fist). — You lie, you great —— rascal! Bell, take him to jail. Come, gentlemen, come, let us take a leetle quelque-chose.

The Canadian boatmen always sing while they row or paddle, and nothing encourages them so much as hearing the bourgeois take the lead in the music. If the passengers, and more especially those of the fair sex, join in the refrain, the compliment is greater still.

Their songs are of a light, cheerful character, generally carrying some little satire or witticism in them, calculated to produce a spirited chorus, and sometimes an uproarious one.

The song and the refrain are carried on somewhat in the following style:

BOURGEOIS. — Par-derrière chez ma tante, Par-derrière chez ma tante.

CHORUS. — Par-derrière chez ma tante, Par-derrière chez ma tante.

BOURGEOIS. — Il y a un coq qui chante, Des pommes, des poires, des raves, des choux, Des figues nouvelles, des raisins doux.

CHORUS. — Des pommes, des poires, des raves, des choux, Des figues nouvelles, des raisins doux.

BOURGEOIS. — Il y a un coq qui chante, Il y a un coq qui chante.

CHORUS. — Il y a un coq qui chante, etc.

BOURGEOIS. — Demande une femme à prendre, Des pommes, des poires, des raves, des choux, etc.

CHORUS. — Des pommes, des poires, etc.

BOURGEOIS. — Demande une femme à prendre, Demande une femme à, etc.

And so it goes on until the advice is given, one piece after another — Ne prenez pas une noire, Car elles aiment trop à boire; Ne prenez pas une rousse, Car elles sont trop jalouses.

And by the time all the different qualifications have been rehearsed and objected to, lengthened out by the interminable repetition of the chorus, the shout of the bourgeois goes up — "Whoop la! à terre, à terre — pour la pipe!"

It is an invariable custom for the voyageurs to stop every five or six miles to rest and smoke, so that this was formerly the way of measuring distances in that country — so many pipes, instead of so many miles.

The Canadian melodies are sometimes very beautiful, and a more exhilarating mode of travel can hardly be imagined than a voyage over those waters, amid all the wild magnificence of nature, with the measured strokes of the oars keeping time to the strains of "Le Rosier Blanc," "En roulant ma Boule," or "Lève ton pied, ma jolie Bergère."

The climax of the fun seemed to be a comic piece which, however often it was repeated, never appeared to grow stale. It went somewhat after this fashion:

BOURGEOIS. — Michaud est monté dans un prunier, Pour treiller des prunes.

La branche a cassé — CHORUS. — Michaud a tombé?

BOURGEOIS. — Ou est-ce qu'il est?

CHORUS. — Il est en bas.

BOURGEOIS. — Oh! reveille, reveille, reveille, Oh! reveille, Michaud est en haut! It was always a point of etiquette to look astonished at the luck of Michaud in staying in the tree in spite of the breaking of the branch, and the joke had to be repeated through every variety of fruit-tree that Michaud might be thought capable of climbing.
