The earth, the trees, and the shrubbery were all too full of the heavy rain that had fallen for us to think about encamping, so we made our arrangements to bestow ourselves in our little saloon for the night. Getting a fire lit was a difficult matter. But in the underbrush of a wild, undisturbed place there are always some fragments of dried branch, some tufts of grass that the rain has not reached, and with the assistance of the spunk, or light-wood, which travelers always go well provided with, a comforting fire was eventually blazing brightly.

After such a chilling, tedious day it was pleasant to gather around it, to sit on the end of the burning logs and watch the Frenchmen making our supper — the kettle nestled in a little nook of bright glowing coals, the slices of ham browning and crisping on the forked sticks, or "broches," which the voyageurs cut so dexterously and set around the brands, the savory messes of "pork and onions" hissing in the frying-pan, which is always a tempting regale to a hungry Frenchman. Truly, it takes a wet, chilly trip, taken nearly fasting, as ours had been, to let a person enjoy to its full extent that most social of meals — a supper.

The bright sun set amid brilliant masses of cloud, the kind that are seen only in our Western skies, and it gave promise of a fine day tomorrow. With that comforting assurance we were glad to take our leave of him, and soon after of each other.

We had hardly roused up the following morning, in obedience to the call of the bourgeois, when our eyes were greeted with the sight of an addition to our company: a tall, stalwart, fine-looking young mitiff, or half-breed, accompanied by two or three Indians. The salutations of the latter to their "father" and their new "mother" were vociferous and joyous. They were the first Winnebagoes I had seen, and they were decidedly not the finest specimens of their tribe. The mitiff, a scion of the wide-spreading tree of the Grignons, was the bearer of an invitation to us from Judge Law, who was encamped a few miles above with one or two Green Bay friends, to come and breakfast with him in his tent. We had not dreamed of finding white neighbors out here, but our vicinity could be no secret to them, not as long as there was an Indian in the neighborhood. So, delaying only long enough for the soldiers to finish their breakfast, we pushed on for the "Butte des Morts," or, as Mrs. A always persisted in calling it, Betty More's.

The white tent of the Judge gleamed in the morning sun as we came up toward the little rising ground it stood on. The river was full of canoes, paddled principally by squaws. There were many Indians to be seen on the banks, all of them with their guns and hunting accoutrements, for the air in every direction was full of flocks of teal, which at that season are most abundant and most delicious. The immense fields of wild rice that abound here and in the little lake below make this neighborhood their favorite place of resort in the autumn months. The effect of that nourishing food is to make the flesh of the birds so fat, so white, and so tender that a young sportsman is always cautioned to fire only at the ones flying very low; shot high in the air, they are bruised to pieces by the fall to the ground and rendered unfit for eating.

We were hemmed in by a little fleet of canoes that surrounded us, the women chattering, laughing, and eagerly putting forward their little wooden bowls of fresh cranberries as an offering of welcome to me.

I amused myself with tossing crackers to them. Some of them reached their mark, others fell into the water, and then such a scrambling and shouting — hands and paddles all in requisition, and loud was the triumph of whichever woman got to a floating one first.

Among the Indians with whom Shaw-nee-aw-kee was now shaking hands, and who all seemed to be old friends, were many fine, straight, well-formed figures, every one of them showing a frame capable of enduring fatigue and the hardships of their way of life. One was describing, with a great deal of gesticulation, the abundance of the game in the neighborhood. He seemed greatly delighted at receiving a quantity of ammunition, and he went off with it instantly to make good his boasts in the matter.

After walking a short way, we reached the tent, where I was introduced to Judge Law and a pleasant little gray-haired French gentleman of the name of Porlier. Several voyageurs and half-breeds were near by, the former busily at work, the latter lounging for the most part, and going through whatever they had to do with a sort of listless indifference.

The contrast between the all-alive air of the one class and the apathetic manner of the other was quite striking.

After a short talk among the members of the party, breakfast was announced, and we went into the tent and took our seats on the ground around the Indian mat that supplied the place of a table.

The post of honor, namely the head of the table, was of course given to me, so that I could not only look around at the whole circle of the company but also enjoy a fine view out the open door of the tent, and take an observation of everything going on at the side-table outside. Judge Doty sat opposite me, with his back to the opening of the tent, and the other gentlemen on either hand. Our waiter was the tall "mitiff" who had been the messenger of the morning. He was still in the same garb — calico shirt, bright-colored scarf around his waist, and on his head a straw hat encircled with a band of black ostrich feathers, the usual dress of his class.

The tin cups that were to hold our coffee were duly set around, then breakfast-plates of the same metal, with knives and forks, and then the viands, among the most conspicuous of which was a large tin pan of boiled ducks.

The Judge, wishing to show, probably, that although we were in the vast wilderness all fastidious nicety had not been left behind, picked up the plate that had been set in front of him, and, seeing something adhering to it that did not exactly please him, handed it back over his shoulder to Grignon with the request that he wipe it carefully. Grignon complied. He pulled a black silk barcelona handkerchief out of his bosom, where it had been snugly tucked away against any occasion that might present itself, gave the tin a furious polishing, and handed it back again. The Judge looked at it with a smile of approbation and gave a glance around the table, as much as to say, "You see how I choose to have things done." Then he applied himself to his breakfast.

The trail for Fort Winnebago at that time led from the shore opposite Butte des Morts, through Ma-zhee-gaw-gaw swamp, and past Green Lake, and it was well for the Judge that his horses stood waiting for him to mount and away as early as possible after breakfast — or I am afraid the story I should have been tempted to tell would have made his ride an uncomfortable one all day long.

We had hardly finished breakfast when our hunter, the one who had received the ammunition, came back bringing about fifty fine ducks, which he had shot in little more than an hour. From that time until the close of our trip, our supply of those delicate birds was never wanting.
