After breakfast the principal chiefs came to call. They had put on their best clothing and their best paint to look at their new mother.

There was Naw-kaw, or Kar-ray-mau-nee, the Walking Turtle, now the principal chief of the nation — a stalwart man with a broad, pleasant face, the whole of which was governed by an immense under lip that hung nearly to his chin. There was the old Day-kau-ray, the most noble and dignified and venerable man of his own tribe or of any other I have known. He had a fine Roman face, made stranger and finer by a bald head with one solitary tuft of long silvery hair on it, neatly tied and falling back on his shoulders. His dress was perfectly neat and perfectly appropriate and almost without ornament. His courtesy he never laid aside under any circumstances whatever. All of it together gave him the highest place in the consideration of everyone who knew him. It will be seen further on that his character was not less grand and striking than his person and his bearing.

There was Black-Wolf, whose lowering, surly face was well described by his name. The fierceness of it was heightened by masses of heavy black hair hanging loose all round it, which is quite contrary to the usual fashion among the Winnebagoes. They generally remove a portion of the hair and draw the rest to the back of the head, where it is clubbed and ornamented with beads, ribbons, cock's feathers — or, if the man is entitled to them, an eagle's feather for every scalp he has taken from an enemy.

There was Talk-English, a remarkably handsome and powerful young Indian, who came by his name in this way. He was one of a party of sixteen Winnebagoes who had gone, the year before, at the invitation of the Government, with their Agent and with Major Forsyth — the Chippewa, as they called him — to visit the President at Washington.

On the trip, the question people not familiar with Western Indians naturally put to them was, "Do you talk English?"

The young fellow was very observant, and he came to his Father with it. "What do they mean by this? Everybody says to me, talk English!"

The Agent interpreted the words for him. "Ah, very well."

The next place they came to was Lockport, in the State of New York. He jumped off the canal-boat onto the lock, ran up to the first man he saw, thrust his face forward into the man's face, and demanded, "Talk Eengeesh?"

"Yes," said the man. "Do you talk English?"

"Ya-as."

From that day forward he carried the name Talk-English, and it was entered on the pay-rolls, and he was not a little proud of it.

Hoo-wau-ne-kah, the Little Elk, was another of the distinguished men of the tribe, and had also been at Washington. Henry Clay came to see the deputation there, and looked carefully over the countenances and the bearing of every man in it, and then pointed to Hoo-wau-ne-kah as the one possessing the greatest talent. He was much pleased when they told him he had picked out the principal orator of the nation, a man decidedly superior in ability to any other individual of the tribe.

Wild-Cat, our Indian Falstaff in everything but the cowardice and the falsehood, I have already spoken of.

Then there was Kau-ray-kaw-saw-kaw, the White Crow, a Rock River Indian, who afterward distinguished himself as the friend of the whites during the Sauk war. The French called him le Borgne, because he had lost an eye. He wore a black silk handkerchief drooping over the left side of his face to hide the blemish, and that, with the rest of his native costume, gave him a very singular appearance.

There was a nephew of the dead chief Four-Legs, whom whites and Indians alike, and with perfect justice, called the Dandy. Out of mourning, his dress was of the most studied and fanciful character. A shirt, when he condescended to wear one, of the brightest colors, covered with innumerable rows of silver brooches set close together; never fewer than two pairs of silver arm-bands; leggings and moccasins embroidered in ribbons and porcupine-quills in the most elaborate manner; everything he could devise in the way of ornament hanging from the club of hair behind; a feather fan in one hand, and in the other a mirror, into which he looked at himself every five minutes. Add the variety and brilliancy of the colors on his face — the choosing and laying on of which took up no small part of the hours he allotted to his toilet — and you have the equipment of young Four-Legs.

All this devotion to dress and appearance seemed not altogether out of place in a youthful dandy. But we had an old one of the same stamp. Pawnee Blanc, the White Pawnee, outdid his younger competitor, if such a thing were possible, in attention to his personal attractions.

On this occasion he came in all his finery, and went through the customary salutations with an air of solemn dignity, and then walked, as the others did, out of the hall where I had received them and into the parlor, where every one of them sat down on the floor. The room, fortunately, was still bare of furniture. But alas, I thought, for my pretty carpet, if this is to be the way they pay their respects to me. I sat and watched the ash falling from the ends of their long pipes, and the other inconveniences that attend the use of tobacco, or kin-nee-kin-nick, with absolute dismay.

The chiefs were followed by the interpreter and his wife, and with them all the Canadian and half-breed women whose husbands found employment at the Agency or at the American Fur Company's establishment.

By that time my piano had been taken out of its case and set up in our quarters. To our great joy it had come through entirely uninjured. Thanks to the skill of Nunns and Clark, not one note was out of tune.

The women had never seen such a thing in their lives, and they were loud in their exclamations of wonder and delight.

"Eh-h-h! regardez donc! Quelles inventions! Quelles merveilles!" One of them, watching the play of my fingers reflected in the nameboard, called out to her companions in great exultation. She had found, as she believed, the hidden machinery that made the sounds, and she was not a little mortified when we undeceived her.
