The boats might come in any day, so it seemed best to begin at once on whatever preparation for housekeeping was in my power. That amounted to fitting and sewing my carpets, in which Mrs. Twiggs kindly helped me; and the wife of one of our Frenchmen came over from the Agency and made everything tidy and comfortable, so that the carpets were soon tacked down and the rooms stood ready for the rest of the furniture, whenever the river chose to deliver it.

I had tried a great many times, in Detroit and again in Green Bay, to engage a servant-woman to come with me to my new home, and had failed every time. One would present herself and we would begin to talk terms, and then, before we could come to any final agreement, the thing would break off — the distance did it, or the savages, or the hardships of the trip, or, as likely as not, the objections of her friends. In the end I had to content myself with the simple hope my husband held out, that one of his French employés and his wife might be willing to take up their abode with us.

That was where matters stood when Major Twiggs removed the difficulty altogether. He proposed that we take into our service a young colored girl he had brought up from Buffalo in the spring, to wait on Mrs. Twiggs until her own servants should arrive from the South.

So Louisa was sent for. She was an uncommonly handsome young negress with an intelligent face and a very demure one, and she called herself fifteen years of age — though from the progress in vice and iniquity I afterward discovered her to have made, she must have been at least several years older than that. Be that as it may, at the time she seemed to have no fault in her but carelessness and inexperience, and I had great hopes that careful training would get the better of both.

My first week's visit with Mrs. Twiggs had just run out when the word came that the boats were in sight — the boats with our furniture in them. The expected arrival of Louis Philippe to visit Queen Victoria could hardly have raised a greater sensation in our little community. We knew perfectly well that some hours must pass before they could reach the place of disembarkation, and we watched the whole time anyway; and in the end all the young officers, with as many of the soldiers as were off duty behind them, went down the bank to the landing with Mr. Kinzie, to see everything come ashore and to help it if help was wanted.

It was a sad plight that matters were found in. As each box was hoisted onto the bank, the water ran out of its corners. Nobody had the patience to wait until they could be carried up to the fort. The gentlemen furnished themselves with hammers and hatchets and fell eagerly to work opening them where they stood, to find out the extent of the damage. Alas for the mahogany. There was not a piece of it whose edges and veneering were not starting away from the wood. It had all the appearance of having lain under the Grande Chûte for days together. Poor Hamilton was loud in his protestations and his excuses.

It was the fault of the men. It was the fault of the weather. It was the fault of the way the things had been packed. "Confound it! he had taken the best care of the things he possibly could — better than he had ever taken before — it would get done!"

There was nothing to do but be patient and make the best of it. And when the pretty sideboard and the work-table had been thoroughly rubbed and set up, and all the little knick-knacks arranged along the mantel-piece — when the white curtains were hung at the windows, and the chairs and the dining-table each stood in its proper relation to the piano — our parlor was pronounced magnificent. Hamilton certainly thought so. He came to give it one admiring look and to hear the music of the piano, which was a perfect novelty to him. The description he gave of it to the young officers after he got back to the Bay expressed his admiration and his wonder together: "There it stood on its four legs! Anybody might go up and touch it!"

In time the dinner- and tea-sets were carefully bestowed in the "Davis," along with sundry jars of sweetmeats I had put up in Detroit. The iron and tin utensils went into a neat cupboard in the kitchen, of which my piano-box supplied the frame. The barrel of eggs and the tubs of butter, brought the whole way from Ohio, were ranged in the store-room. A suitable quantity of salt pork and flour was bought from the commissary, and there was no lack of game of every description, that being the offering of our red children. We were ready to begin housekeeping.

The first dinner in her own house is an era in the life of a young housekeeper, and I shall certainly never forget mine. I was down in the lower regions superintending my very inexpert little cook when my husband appeared to tell me that the payment — then the all-absorbing topic of interest — would not begin until the afternoon, and that he had accordingly invited M. Rolette, Mr. Hempstead, and four other gentlemen to dine with us.

"So unexpected — so unprepared for?"

"Never mind, give them anything you have. They have been living for some days in tents, and anything will taste well to them."

My dinner had been meant to consist chiefly of a venison pasty, and by great good fortune the only dish among my store large enough for it was of very large proportions indeed, so that there was already smoking in the oven a pie nearly equal in size to the famous Norwich pudding. With a few trifling additions to the bill of fare we made out very well, and the master of the house had the satisfaction of hearing his impromptu dinner very much commended by all six of his guests.
