A letter reached Mr. Kinzie around this time from Colonel Richard M. Johnson, of Kentucky. The Colonel had thrown himself with great warmth behind a school got up in that State for the schooling of Indian youths and children, and he wanted something from the Agent. He wanted him to work on the Winnebagoes — to press them to send their children there, and, what mattered a good deal more to the Colonel, to press them to lay aside some share of their annuity-money each year to keep the place running.

It was the holiday season, and a good many of the chiefs happened to be camped near the Portage. A messenger went out to gather them in at Paquette's house — Paquette was the interpreter — so that their Father could talk with them there.

They came, all of them, on the day named. The letter was opened out before them, and everything that could be said for civilization and education was said: what it would mean for the whole nation if even a handful of the younger ones were properly taught by the whites and then sent home again to pass on to their people the learning, the arts, the manufactures, the habits of a civilized life. At the end of each point, as it was rendered to them, the answer came back from all of them together — "Humph!" (Good!)

Their Father finished. Then Day-kau-ray, the oldest of the chiefs there and the one they held in most reverence, got to his feet and said this:

"Father, - The Great Spirit made the white man and the Indian. He didn't make them alike. He gave the white man a heart to love peace, and the arts of a quiet life. He taught him to live in towns, to build houses, to make books, to learn all things that would make him happy and prosperous in the way of life appointed him. To the Native man the Great Spirit gave a different character. He gave him a love of the woods, of a free life, of hunting and fishing, of making war with his enemies and taking scalps. The white man doesn't live like the Indian - it isn't his nature. Neither does the Indian love to live like the white man - the Great Spirit didn't make him so."

"Father, - We don't wish to do anything contrary to the will of the Great Spirit. If he had made us with white skins, and characters like the white men, then we would send our children to this school to be taught like the white children."

"Father, - We think that if the Great Spirit had wished us to be like the whites, he would have made us so. As he hasn't seen fit to do so, we believe he would be displeased with us, to try and make ourselves different from what he thought good."

"Father, - I have nothing more to say. This is what we think. If we change our minds, we will let you know."

What Day-kau-ray says there shows what the Indians hold to be true: that the arts and the sciences come to the white man because the Great Spirit himself is his teacher in them. The Great Spirit has given the Indian no such lessons. To go after that knowledge by some side road of his own would therefore be a thing beneath him.
