The next morning we had a cheerful breakfast, joined by the Rev. Mr. Kent, of Galena, and then made ready to go on. I had reconciled my husband to keeping our route toward Chicago by assuring him that I felt as fresh and as bright as I had the morning we left home.

There was some apprehension, though, about the next stage of it. We might have difficulty striking the trail to Hamilton's diggings, which was our next point.

The directions we were given were certainly obscure. We were to follow a given trail for a certain number of miles until we came to a crossing; we were to turn into that, bearing easterly; and after a time that would bring us to a deep trail running straight to Hamilton's. In that open country there are no landmarks. One elevation is so exactly like the next that if you lose your trail there is about as much hope of regaining it as of finding a pathway in the middle of the ocean. And a trail out there is not a broad highway. It is a narrow path, cut deep by the hoofs of the horses the Indians ride in single file, and sunk so far into the sod that covers the prairie that it can be hard to make it out at a distance of a few rods.

This was new ground to Mr. Kinzie, whose journeys from the Portage to Chicago had always been made by the direct route through Kosh-ko-nong. He made Mr. Morrison repeat the directions again and again, though Plante, our guide, swaggered and talked big all the while, and declared that he knew every hill and stream and point of woods from that spot to Chicago.

We had not gone many miles before we discovered that Monsieur Plante was profoundly ignorant of the country. Mr. Kinzie had to take the lead himself and make his way as best he could by the directions he had been given. Nothing that looked like the promised cross trails came into view. The path we had started on kept bending away from what we knew to be the right direction, and bent further, until at last we had no choice but to abandon it altogether.

We traveled the livelong day, halting at noon only long enough to bait the horses and eat a little ourselves. It was as gloomy and desolate a ride as I can well imagine. Rolling prairie, unbroken by forest or stream. Hillock rising after hillock, and at the top of each one we looked for a distant fringe of timber and did not find it. The same cheerless, unbounded prospect met the eye every way we turned, varied here and there only by oblong pits in the ground, like gigantic graves, where somebody had dug for signs of a lead-mine and found none.

We were so anxious to recover our trail, and the weather was growing so cold and the wind so sharp and piercing, that we did not once turn aside from our course, not even when a gaunt prairie-wolf showed itself, as one did more than once, standing on the nearest rising ground and looking over at us as though it dared us to come. The Frenchmen would give an instinctive shout and spur their horses, and the hounds, Kelda and Cora, would rush off to the chase, but the bourgeois soon called them all back with a warning that we must attend strictly to the business of our journey. Just before sunset we crossed a muddy stream, with some difficulty, and found on the far side a scanty belt of trees that would serve as an encamping-ground. We took it gladly, having no idea whether we were near the place we were looking for or a great way off.

We had ridden at least fifty miles since leaving Morrison's, and I was conscious of very little fatigue. What I did feel was a vague discomfort at the idea of being lost in that wild, cold region, a thing altogether different from anything I had experienced before. Then my husband's voice came, in the tone he always used with me. "Cheer up, wifie — we will find the trail tomorrow." And the uneasiness went.

The men soon had the camp comfortable, in spite of the trouble of driving tent-pins into frozen ground and the want of trees big enough to make a rousing fire. The place was a stony side-hill, as they would say in New England, where such things abound. We were not disposed to be fastidious. We ate our salt ham and toasted our bread and lent a pleased ear to the chatter of our Frenchmen, who could not sufficiently admire the heroism of Madame John amid the vicissitudes that had befallen her.

The wind was high enough to be uncomfortable at bed-time, and it rose through the night. It snowed heavily. We lay there expecting every moment that the tent would be carried off the ground. The matter settled itself differently. The poles snapped, and the whole of it came down on us in one mass, with all the weight of snow on top.

Mr. Kinzie roused his men and went out at their head into the neighboring wood to cut a new set of poles, leaving me to bear the burden of the whole thing on my shoulders, since my only shelter from the storm was to stay snugly housed underneath the canvas where I was.

With some difficulty a sort of support was rigged up at last for the tent-covering, which answered our purpose tolerably well until daybreak, when our damp and miserable condition made us very glad to get up and hang about the fire until breakfast had been dispatched and the horses were saddled again.

The prospect was not encouraging. Around us was an unbroken sheet of snow. We had no compass, and the air was so thick with driving sleet that it was often impossible to tell which way the sun was. I tied my husband's silk pocket-handkerchief over my veil to keep the wind and the icy particles off my face — they cut like a razor — but though I was shielded every way that circumstances allowed, I suffered intensely from the cold.

We went on, mile after mile, turning into every point of woods in the hope of finding at least an Indian wigwam where we could ask our way. Every one of them was solitary and deserted. Not even the trace of a recent fire, to give us hope that there were human beings within miles of us.

Then a shout from the foremost of the party made every heart in it leap.

"Une clôture! une clôture!" A fence! A fence!

It was almost like life coming back to the dead.

We spurred on, and there they were — a few straggling rails crowning a rising ground at no great distance.

And never did music sound so sweet as the crowing of a cock, which at that moment saluted our ears.
