We followed the fence down the far side of the slope, and in the hollow at the bottom of it stood a group of log cabins. Low, shabby, nothing about them that promised anything. The snow was coming off the ridge in sheets by then and driving flat into our faces, and I have never in my life been so glad to see anything so ugly.

"Whose cabins are these?" Mr. Kinzie asked a man who was cutting wood at one of the doors.

"Hamilton's," the man said. He set the axe down in the same motion and came forward to help us dismount, because in that country hospitality is not a decision anybody makes. It is simply what happens.

They showed us into the best-looking of the buildings. A large fire was burning in the clay chimney and the room held a genuine warmth, though I could see daylight in the gaps beside the door and the windows — gaps many inches across. A woman rose from a seat beside a sort of bread-trough that had been pressed into service as a cradle. A fine, fat baby lay in it. She wore a tidy calico dress and a shabby black silk cap trimmed with lace shabbier than the cap. She made room for us at the fire. She did not offer to take my wrappings and defences, which were heavy with snow by then and beginning to drip on her floor. Whether she was too timid to touch them or simply did not know it was expected, I could not tell.

With my husband's help I contrived at last to get out of them. When he had seen me comfortably disposed of, and in a fair way to thaw after that freezing ride, he left me and went out to see to his men and his horses.

He was a long time gone. I expected him back with our host. Instead he came back alone and laughing. Mr. Hamilton, he said, hesitated to present himself before me: he was unwilling that a woman who had known his family in the East should see him in his present mode of life. The feeling appeared to wear off. Before dinner he came in and was introduced to me, and was as agreeable and as polite as the son of Alexander Hamilton would naturally be.

The housekeeper, who was the wife of one of the miners, prepared us a plain, comfortable dinner. A table was set out as long as the dimensions of the cabin would admit. The end nearest the fire had somewhat nicer furniture on it, and more delicate fare.

Then somebody blew a horn. Ten or twelve miners came in and took their places below us at the table. They were the roughest-looking set of men I have ever beheld, and their language was as uncouth as their people. Hunting-shirts, trousers and moccasins, all of deer-skin, the shirts fringed with more of the same along the seams. Each of them wore a colored belt around the waist, and in each belt was stuck a large hunting-knife. Sitting in a row along that table they had the look of a company of brigands who had come in out of the weather.

They called Mr. Hamilton "Uncle Billy," every one of them, uniformly, though he was so much their superior. I could not help fancying that the familiarity was something we all had to pay them, and that what it bought was their good humor. The feeling was confirmed for me after the meal, when one of the company lingered behind while the rest of the gang took their departure. He had learned that we came from Fort Winnebago. He informed us that he was a discharged soldier and would like to make some inquiries about his old station and his comrades, and then he seated himself unceremoniously, without waiting to be asked, and began questioning us.

There was such bitterness in the way he spoke of his former officers that I felt quite sure he was a deserter, and I rather suspected he had made his escape from the service because of some punishment. His face fairly distorted when he came to Captain H., to whose company he had belonged. "There is a man in the mines," he said, "who has been in his hands, and if he ever gets a chance to come within shot of him, I guess the captain will remember it. He knows well enough he darsn't set his foot in the diggings. And there's T. isn't much better. Everybody thought it a great pity that fellow's gun snapped when he so nearly had him at Green Bay."

Having delivered himself of these sentiments, he marched out, to my great relief.

Mr. Hamilton passed most of the afternoon with us. The storm raged so hard outside that going on with our trip was out of the question, and there was nothing else to do. He gave us pleasant anecdotes and reminiscences of his early life in New York, and of his adventures since he had come out to the Western wilderness. When he was obliged to leave us for a while, he furnished us with books to entertain us. The most interesting of them was the biography of his father.

Could that illustrious man have foreseen the scene in which his life was one day to be perused — his son's home, a mining cabin banked in snow, a knife in every belt at the table — what would his sensations have been?

The most amusing part of our experience was still ahead of us. As the evening came on I had been quietly speculating on our prospects for the night's accommodation. Our pale, melancholy-looking landlady and her fat baby were evidently the only specimens of the feminine gender about the establishment, so it was hardly reasonable to suppose that any of the other cabins contained wherewithal to furnish us a comfortable lodging. And the one we were in offered nothing of the sort to view, only two beds, uncurtained, extended against the farther wall. My doubts were resolved after a time by watching the hostess stretch a cord between the two and hang some petticoats and extra garments along it, by way of a partition. Then she invited us to occupy one of them.

My only preparation was to wrap my cloak around me and lie down with my face to the wall. The good people were less ceremonious. At a distance of scarcely two feet, we could not be mistaken in the sound of their garments being, not laid aside, but whipped over the partition-wall between us.

Our waking thoughts, though, were only thankfulness for so comfortable a lodging after the trials and fatigues we had undergone, and even those were of short duration. Our eyes were soon closed in slumber.
