It was late the following day — March 13th — when we took leave of our kind hostess. She loaded us with cakes, with good wishes, and with messages for her sister Dixon and the children. We traveled pleasantly along through a country that was beautiful in spite of its wintry appearance.

There was a house at Buffalo Grove where we stopped for half an hour. A nice-looking young girl there presented us with some maple-sugar of her own making, and entertained us with the history of a contest between two rival claimants for the patronage of the stage-wagon. Its proprietors had not yet decided whether to send it by Buffalo Grove or by another route, which she pointed out to us at no great distance. The driver, she took care to inform us, was in favor of the former. We asked whether he was a young man. She answered in the affirmative, and the blush that came with the answer explained the whole matter satisfactorily.

Just at sunset we came down upon the dark, rapid waters of the Rock River. The ferry — the ferry we had traveled so far out of our way to take advantage of — proved to be merely a small boat, a skiff. The larger one had been swept off into the stream and carried down when the ice broke up the week previous. The water went by fast and black under the last of the light.

My husband's first care was to get me across. He put me in the boat with the saddles and the packs, and because it was so late an hour and no time was to be lost, he ventured at the same time to hold the bridles of the two most docile horses, to guide them in swimming the river.

When we had proceeded a few rods from the shore we were startled by a loud puffing and blowing close beside us. We looked around. To our great surprise, little Brunet was just upon our weather-bow. Determined not to be outdone by his model, Jerry, he had taken to the water on his own responsibility, and he reached the opposite shore as soon as any of the party.

All being safely landed, a short walk brought us to the house of Mr. Dixon. He had come into the country so recently, and yet he had managed to make everything comfortable around him, and when he ushered us into Mrs. Dixon's sitting-room and seated us by a glowing wood fire, while Mrs. Dixon busied herself preparing us a nice supper, I felt that on such a trip the comfort overbalances the inconvenience.

Mrs. Dixon was surrounded by several children. One of them leaned against the chimney-piece in the full Indian costume — calico shirt, blanket, leggings. He had a dark complexion and full, melancholy eyes, and he kept those eyes fixed on the ashes, where he was making marks with a stick. He rarely raised them to gaze at us, as children are wont to do. He interested me exceedingly, and I asked an intelligent little girl, evidently a daughter of our host, "Who is that boy?"

"Oh, that is John Ogie," answered she.

"What is the matter with him? he looks very sad."

"Oh, he is fretting after his mother."

"Is she dead, then?"

"Some say she is dead, and some say she is gone away. I guess she is dead, and buried up in one of those graves yonder" — pointing through the window to a rising ground opposite, where two or three little picketed inclosures stood.

I felt a strong sympathy with the child, and it was increased when I asked whether he had a father. "Oh, yes," the little spokeswoman replied, "but he goes away, and drinks, and don't care for his children."

"And what becomes of John then?"

"He stays here with us, and we teach him to read, and he learns dreadful fast."

When the boy at last turned his large dark eyes upon me, it went to my heart. It was such a motherless look. And it was explained when, long afterward, I learned his further history. His mother was still living. He knew that she was living, and with the reserve peculiar to his people he never spoke of her to his young companions. Unable to endure the continued ill treatment of her husband, a surly, intemperate Canadian, she had left him and returned to her own family among the Pottowattamies. Years after, this boy and a brother who had also been left behind with their father found their way to the Upper Missouri to join her — she had been taken there by the Government, with the rest of her tribe, from the shores of Lake Michigan.

A most savory supper of ducks and venison, with their accompaniments, soon smoked upon the board, and we did ample justice to it. Traveling is a great sharpener of the appetite, and so is cheerfulness, and ours had been raised by the encouraging account Mr. Dixon gave us of the rest of the route yet before us.

"There is no difficulty," he said, "if you keep a little to the north, and strike the great Sauk trail. If you get too far to the south, you will come upon the Winnebago Swamp, and, once in that, there is no telling when you will ever get out again. As for the distance, it is nothing at all to speak of. Two young men came out here from Chicago, on foot, last fall. They got here the evening of the second day, and, even with a lady in your party, you could go on horseback in less time than that. The only thing is to be sure and get on the great track that the Sauks have made, in going every year from the Mississippi to Canada, to receive their presents from the British Indian Agent."
