IVl.  L.
'7.302
L3fe D. 26-29
537353
GENEALOGY  COLLECTION
ALLEN,COUNTY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY
3  1833  01072  9678
Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive in  2013
http://archive.org/details/fergushistorical2629unse
FERGUS »    cy HISTORICAL  SERIES
No.  26  -  29
I
1557353
»|;|i4tii0C!;  SiDciihj-sm-
y ♦■  ♦  Vv4-V? j^l^^ ■»•-»' j- » Vt"j» t^^e*-*^*-*;^^  P-  '''---V^-«'-*--*'V:*.i:'i:;f4:f"^f  i-?  5^-f-_i. -;.'■. .cf
-.^i
f        tt!*, .♦  *■  * !■>-*■  jr;* •»•-» ■» ♦-t-t  •» -rV"^ <^ » ^ ♦•»•>- •^  V •  -  •     '•■^^"■*-^*t3:''^^~*'/*:'^*'*r''**"'^^^^^  '■'"'.:"'~ii-?i:^t^^_t':-'  '*"
M0-.  EDWARD   EVERE:.TT.
1     '  ^:T:'^'P5.    EISTOkY,  li-,].:iIM,  and  GUSTOMS  ui:,.v,;  :3'«W,  n
I:;.r
dcgu^.:.  See  Inside  ana  i-ast  Page:*  o£  Co^er.
FERGUS    PRINTING    COIVIPAM'^
:HiGAGO,
REYNOLDS^    HISTORY   OF    ILLINOIS.  j
Embracing  also  The  History  cf  My  Life.  By  John  Rkyijolds,  rA|r< Reprint  of  oiiginai  edition  of  1855,  with  complete  Index  added.  Cloth  boavrts ;\it;  Antiqus  Paper;  -Pp  4x5;  8^0.     1879.     Edition  of  112  copies,    Pnce,  $7.50
n  Times
.  r  111.,  etc.     Portrait
I ■I'.T  •
i'.m
■cr .'. a  <  •
^  -lieFergu?  Pr:nt- :  tbe  -vTork  01  xe-
vi  .Iv  Liie,"  wr:  -
-.'jid^  *    *    -  :
■l  hi  any  i^nc-    'J-:ic
:  cf  xbanks  for  tbe^'r
"  Lilivion  a  ineritcrK'US.
^j^v^.'-Jjciieviiie  Advocate,  Dee.
iy  &T1  attraetiYe  form,
.  i'uli  index,  «jf  a  hook,
.u.~trauori  of  the  fliffi-
0  devoted  theniaelv&s
n-t ve  had  to  encounter
r  l-.oynolds  >vas  one  of  i
-es  in  ■western  pabiic   !
•  T'O^ed  this  epitome  of  |
-   days  of   the   wf.=itern  |
•  ■nanded  a  readv  ttiie.
-■.-4,  the  flrst  edition,
ro   T  hundred  copios,
ritEellevil]e,  and
i  Chicaero,  at  the
-    ,.    ...    Nearly  the  \vlioie
■yA  ill  trie  great  fire  of  1B57.
i-riot,  ttie  present  volunie  is
.     .  .  than  the  reprint  of  au  old;
)ie  ere  it  is.    The  extensive  rc.n;'e
iternfil  improvement,  public  life
cxT.eiiince,  naturally  traY<:rf^t'd  in
this  bulk impossil: iibounds eontain^ enquirer Above  al] individn; Of  a  wefit
y  volume,  render  even  a  slight  analysis ie.  Ix,  is  discursive  and  sketchy,  'Avd in  details  of  purely  local  value/lnri  r;. also  a  mass  of  ini'orraation  vvhich  ihcs %\onld  look  for  ixi  vain  elsewherv^. '  ii  is  stamped  with  an  originality  and iliiy  v.'hieh  set  well  upon  the  shodldera em  man.— 3/ag.  0/  Am.  BisL.Axkg.lB^O,
Governr^r  John  Beynolds'  History  of  rilincis;-, ■which  ii'.  out  of  piint  and  exceedingly  hard  U> get,  has  heen  republished  by  the  Ferg\is  Frint- ing  Goniiriny.  The  orisrlnal  title  of  the  v.orH: "'My  Own  Tiiues:  embracing  a] s5o  a  sketch  of  my life,"  is  preserved.  Governor  i>:eynoids  paesv-d nearly  half  a  century  in  most  prominent  public life.  As  a '"Ranger"  in  1813:  as  Judge  AdvociAto in  1814;  'a-s  aa  iliinois  Suprerae  Goart  Judffe:  as member  of  i!ie  Illinois  General  Assembly;  aa Governor  o:.:  Illinois:  as  Eepre>5entative  in  Con- gress for  percn  years,  and  ne^■er  absent  from  ids .•seat  durin.jr  ^^es'-ion;  as  IlliMois-Canal  Commis- sioner; a7jd  linally,  as  Spe;ikcr  of  the  XJlinois House;— and  all  this  from  the  early  jjart  ex  the liresent  ct;n.Lury  until  beyo?:id  its  noon  :  his strong,  aggressive,  manly  natvixe  and  life  -were most  poT>'erfui  factors.in  this  period  of  wonder- ful .transition  to  Illinois  and  the  "West.  "My 0^11  .Time.^^"  thus  became  an  epitome  of  those- days,  of  theit  rexnarkabie  m^^a^ares,  of  their raarveloos  changes,  and  a  record  of  many  of their ftreaw  wen.  Iroquois  County  2'fmei',Nov. 2'j,  1873.
REYNOLD'S  PIONEER  HISTORY  OF  lL}:.iNOI3, ta::.  .  ibe  Discovery  in  1673  and  the  History  of  the  Country  to  the  year  iSiS, '^?'i  •  ,  ^xz.xc  GoYcnimeat  was  organised.  By  John  REVNOi-O?,  iate  Governor  of  Illinois,  Meaiber  of ^-^..  .Suie  Senator,  and  Representative,  etc.,  Belleville,  III.,  iSc2.  Rf^printed  from  the  original  editiovi, J  »;.!... i  .;.ive  beeu  aJdtd  Notes  and  a  complete  Index.  Portrai^.  Pages  i^:  8vo.  Cloth  Boai-us;  n.ir,\jt^ Iwacd  Pjj.cr.     iSS;*.    (In  Press)  i
THE   MARTYKDCM    OF    LOVEjOY. account  of  the  Life,  Trials,  and  Perils  of  Rev.  Elijah  P.  Lovejoy,  killed  by  a  Vu>- Lvery  .Mcb.  at  Ahon.  U!  ,  on  the  ni^ht  of  Nov.  7,  1^37.     By  Henuv  Tanner,  of  Buffalo,  N.Y.,  an  Eyel- id; Pp.  ?2^:  ^yo.     iZ'ix.  Price,  $3.
7,  1637.     By  He: id  bottom  ur.cut;  Illustr:-.!
(Voi.  1
K  *■■'*-    '
Vol.
llir.c
Ve.;    r V,  a  I'
!         HISTORY  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SETTLEMENT r.  County,  iJlJnois:   Founded  by  Morris  Birl-J.tck  (portrait)  aiid  George  ' \  i2i7  and  iZ-.Z.     hy  George  Flowhr.     With  Pxeiface  and  Foot-Notes  by  Hon.  E.  1  . -L'ipkf-.  KMbject  .nnd  PeisoLai  Inde.xJ^s.    Cloth  Boards;  uncut.    Pages  408;  Svo.    ^Z^2.    Ft  v
11.^
inonecr  '■
SKETCH  OF  ENOCH  LONG. ;h  portrait),     ty  Kakvey  Reid.     Cloth  boards;  ui;:.ai
Fa:;:es  112;  Svo.     1884.
Fr
'-/  THE  EDWARDS  PAPERS.
■tion  of  the  Coll.  of  the  MS3.  of  Ninian  Edv/ards,  C.-J.  of  Ci.  of  .  ,'
'•  aii'J  or.ly  g.,v.  cf  Jil.  Ty;  o:,e  cf  tiie  fjnct  two  U.  S.  scnr.tois  and  third  gov.  of  li'      I'r..- Hi.i  S.>/- ,  Oct.  i6th,  1S83,  b>  hh  sf.:?.  N.  "vV.  Edwakd;,,  !:j.'--A!.t'y-tJ=n  '^^  i
mvu^a.     With  Sie.,1  Poitrait.s  cT  !-,.v.   K.iwards  and  Dar/I  P.  O^ok ;  s- ry-    CunjpL-:':  hui^x.     Cloth  boaru.-;  .jijcut.     Pages  63/;  3i.'o.     i''iiii.
A    DISCOURSE
ON     THE  '■■.■■'
AIIORIGIXES  OF  THE  0!!10  VALLEI
'  in  which  the  opinions  ok  its Conquest  in  the  Seventeenth  Century
IJV    THK  •  ..    •
IR(3QU0IS   OR  SIX  NATIONS,  .
•     SLVl'ORTKir   f.V  .    '
Cadwai.i.ader    Coldkn    of   New    Vokk,     (iov.  Thomas    I'owxai.i.   ok
MaSSACHTSETJ-S,      Dk.     r.ENJANtlX     FraNRI.EN     OF     ^ENNS^'1A■A-
M\,  Hex.  DEWrri    Clixtox  of  New  York,  axo JFDOE  Joiix  Haywood  oi-  Tf.xxessee,
ARE  EXAMINED  AND  CONTESTED;
/      TO    WHICH    AKK    PRKKIXKI)
SOME  remai;ks  on  the  study  of  history.
rKEI'ARl'.<)    Al      THE    RI'-ijUESI'    OF     THE    HisroRKJAL    SoCIETV    OF    Ollli),
By  WiEEiAM  Henry  Harrison  of  North  Bend.
M.MOk-r'.KNHH.M.    1'.   S.  A.,     PkI^IDKN  I     OF     THK    UnIIKI)    SlAn.-.,    I.K.
A'^c  inco^iiitn  pr.y  io;^!iiiis  hab^'tiiiiiis.      {1m:\'.\j  •  >  '  .     .
REPRINTKI)  1
KROM    THi:  ^^        "
TkAXsACIlOXS   OF    IIIE  IHsroRICAl,  AXl)  Pi  I  lEoSOl'Il  ICAE   Soc'iV  OF  Onio.
Vol..     [,     PaKT    .SfXT)ND,    C'INCINN.VTI,     1839. WITH-
NO  IKS   AND    AN    APPENDIX.
C  H  1  C  A  (;  O  :
U  1:  R  (;  U  S    V  R  I  N  '\  I  N  ( X    C  O  M  P.\  N  V.
i<S83.
It  1
^
+11  r^,.  0,>Ai\^p  \x
utmtinah
XQ  ff) i^ Ij**!; vi> )J  1^  Au en n c, i ; u •>+
A   DISCOURSE*
O  N    T  H  E
ABORIGINES  OF  THE  OHIO  A'ALLEY
(lEXTLEMLX    OF     IHE    HISTORICAL    SoClETV    OF    OhIO  :
Xo  opinion  has  been  more  generally  entertained  in  every  civil- ized community,  than  that  which  asserts  the  importance  of  the study  of  history,  as  a  branch  of  education.  And  although  there are  few,  if  any,  who  would  controvert  this  proposition,  ii:  will scarcely  be  denied,  that  there  is  no  study  at  this  day,  so  much neglected.  We  everywhere  meet  with  men  possessed  of  much intelligence,  great  scientific  attainments,  high  standing  in  those professions  A\hich  require  profound  study  and  deep  research,  who liave  neglected  to  inform  themselves,  not  only  of  the  circum- stances which  influenced  the  rise  and  progress,  the  decline  ai.d fall  of  the  most  celebrated  nations  of  antiquity,  but  who  are  ex- tremely deficient  in  the  knowledge  of  the  history  of  tlieir  o\v!i country.  If  wc  search  for  the  causes, which  have  produced  this state  of  things,  one,  perhaps  the  most  efficient,  will  be  found  in
*  This  pamphlet  discusses  several   important  topics  in  the  history  of  the na':»e  triljes  of  our  continent,  with  spirit  and  ability.         "  *  ■'  We
Jiave  no  doubt,  that  they  will  be  i;enerally  interested  in  learning  the  views  of one,  whose  long  official  connexion  with  the  Indian  tribes,  in  peace  and  in war,  and  whose  familiarity  with  the  topograpliy  of  the  region  in  question, ^ive  to  his  opinions  the  authority  of  observation  and  experience,  as  far  as  they are  a[)piicabie  to  the  matter  in  hand.  It  i>  a  source  of  real  satisfaction,  and affurcJs  relief  under  ihe  disgust  with  which  a  well-rei^'ulated  mind  contemplates the  ferocity  of  our  y^arty  contests,  to  find  an  individual,  situated  like  the author  of  thi>  essay,  devoting  a  portion  op  his  time  and  his  pen  to  the  calm consideration  of  a  subject,  whose  interest  is  purely  historical.  There  are  cer- tainly but  (c.w  individuals,  whose  life,  from  early  youtli,  has  been  passed  in the  arduous  active  service  of  the  field,  and  in  maturer  years  amidst  the  labors and  cares  of  higii  and  respon>il)!e  official  station,  who  could  sustain  with  more cretiit  a  discussion  like  that  contained  in  the  pages  under  review. — E.  EVEREir, in  .\nrlli-.lmci  ictin  Rev'uii',  July,  1840.
1 '-. .
u/  /
n    til.    !.
4  HARRISONS    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.  ^
the  great  increase  of  works  of  fiction,  and  the  fascinating  charac- ter with  which  they  have  been  clothed,  by  the  great  geniuses  who have  been  employed  upon  them.  It  is  the  perusal  of  these  which occupies  the  attention  of  the  wealthy  and  fills  the  leisure  moments of  the  man  of  business.
I  am  loathe  to  give  another  reason  for  this  decline  in  the  taste for  historical  reading,  because  it  indicates,  also,  a  decline  in  patri- otism. I  allude  to  the  inordinate  desire  for  the  accumulation  of riches,  which  has  so  rapidly  increased  in  our  country,  and  which, if  not  arrc;sted,  will  ere  long  effect  a  deplorable  change  in  the character  of  our  countrymen.  This  basest  of  passions,  this ''meanest  of  am.ors,"'  could  not  exhibit  itself  in  a  way  to  be  more destructive  of  republican  principles,  than  by  exerting  an  influence on  the  course  of  education  adopted  for  our  youth.  The  effects upon  the  moral  condition  of  the  nation  would  be  like  those  v.hich would  be  produced  upon  the  verdant  valley  of  our  State,  if  some quality  inmiical  to  vegetable  life,  were  to  be  imparted  to  the sources  of  llie  magnificent  river  by  which  it  is  adorned  and  fer- tilized.
It  is  in  youth,  and  in  early  youth,  that  the  seeds  of  that  patri- otism must  be  sown,  which  is  to  continue  to  bloom  through  life. No  one  ever  began  to  be  a  patriot  in  advanced  age;*  that  holy fire  must  be  lighted  up  when  the  mind  is  best  suited  to  receive. with  enthusiasm,  generous  and  disinterested  impressions.  If  it  is not  then  "the  ruling  passion"'  of  the  bosom,  it  will  never  be  at an  age  when  every  action  is  the  result  of  cool  calculation,  and the  basis  of  that  calculation  too  often  the  interest  of  the  individ- ual. This  has  been  the  prevailing  opinion  with  every  free  people throughout  every  stage  oX  civilization,  from  the  roving  savage tribe  to  the  numerous  and  polished  nation,  from  the  barbarous Pelasgi  to  the  glorious  era  of  Miltiades  and  Cimon,  or  the  more refined  and  luxurious  age  of  Pericles  and  Xenophon.  By  all,  the same  means  were  adojjted.  With  all,  it  was  the  custom  to  pres- ent to  their  youth  the  examples  of  the  heroic  achievements  of their  ancestors,  to  inspire  them  with  the  same  ardor  of  devotion to  the  welfare  of  their  country.  As  it  regards  the  argument,  it matters  not  whether  the  history  was  written  or  unwritten,  whether in  verse  or  prose,  or  how  communicated;  whether  by  national annals,  to  wliich  all  had  access;  -by  recitations  in  solemn  assem- blies, as  at  the  Olympic  a.nd  other  games  of  Greece;  in  the  songs of  bardh,  as  amongst  the  Celts  and  Scandinavians:  or  in  the speeches  of  the  aged  warriors,  as  was  practised  by  the  ^Vyandots, I)elawares,  Shawanees,  and  other  tribes  of  our  own  country. Much  fiction  was,  no  doubt,   passed  off  on  these  occasions  as
ABORR'JXES  OF  THE  OHIO  VALLEY.         5
real  history;  but,  as  it  was  believed  to  be  true,  that  was  sufficiein to  kindle  the  spirit  of  emulation  in  the  cause  of  patriotism  among those  to  whom  these  recitations,  songs,  and  speeches  were  ad- dressed.
In  the  remarks  I  liave  made,  it  is  by  no  means  my  intention to  deny  the  good  effects  which  have  been  derived  from  some  of the  works  of  fiction,  and  that  they  have  greatly  assisted
"  To  raise  the  genius,  and  to  mend  the  heart. "
Hut  this  result  is  better  effected  by  authentic  history.  Amongst the  former  of  these,  the  Telemachus  of  Fenelon  stands  ahnost unrivalled  for  the  beauty  of  the  narrative,  the  purity  of  the  niorals it  inculcates,  the  soundness  of  many  of  the  principles  of  govern- ment it  advances,  and  the  masterly  manner  in  which  tJie  passions of  youth  are  subdued  and  brought  under  the  control  of  wisdom and  virtue.  But  I  think  it  will  not  be  contended  that  these lessons,  excellent  as  they  are,  can  have  as  beneficial  an  effect  as many  of  the  narratives  to  be  found  in  real  history.  Tiie  reason is  obvious.  The  youth,  for  instance,  for  whose  special  benefit  the book  I  have  mentioned  was  written,  knowing  that  it  was  a  fic- tion, might  very  readily  persuade  himself  that  the  task  of  forming his  conduct  upon  that  attributed  to  the  son  of  Ulysses  was  too much  for  him  or  any  one  else  to  accomplish,  the  character  being drawn,  not  from  nature,  but  from  the  imagination  of  the  author. On  the  contrary,  how  many  thousands  of  youth  have  been  encour- aged to  pursue  a  career  of  usefulness  and  true  glory  by  the  exam- ples to  be  found  in  the  history  of  Greece  and  Rome.
The  manner  in  which  Telemachus  is  made  to  sacrifice  his  love for  Eucharis,  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  pious  object  of  his travels,  forms  a  beautiful  lesson;  and  his  deep  contrition  and regret  for  having  gl\en  way  to  the  violence  of  his  passions  in  his contest  with  Hippias,  is  still  a  better  one.  But  authentic  history furnishes  examples  of  forbearance,  in  matters  of  this  kind,  which are  infinitely  preferable.
In  relation  to  the  first,  the  cases  of  Scipio  Africamis  and  Alex- ander the  Great,  may  be  quoted.  And  as  it  regards  the  control of  the  temj^er,  where  its  unrestrained  violence  might  produce great  nrischief,  Grecian  history  furnishes  us  with  one  of  more vnliie  than  all  of  a  similar  character-w^hich  are  to  l)e  found  in  all the  works  of  fiction,  from  the  origin  of  letters  to  the  present  day-  1 refer  to  the  well-known  anecdote  recorded  of  Themistocles  in  his difference  with  Kurylnades,  the  Spartan  admiral  and  coniman dor- m-chief of  the  allierl  tleet,  immediately  preceding  the  battle  of Salarnis.     The  ima(finL)tion  of  no  writer  can  conceive  an  effect  so
6  HARRISON  S    HISTORICAL   DISCOURSE.
great,  to  be  produced  by  dignified  forbearance,  under  grosh;  insult, as  that  of  Themistocles  on  this  occasion.'"
Take  from  the  anecdote  the  intended  blow  which  tlie  superior refinement  of  modern  manners  would  not  tolerate,  and  how  often might  it  prove  a  useful  example  to  men  holding  inferior  stations in  a  republic,  to  meet  the  passionate  violence  of  those  in  power, with  moderation  and  firmness,  and  thus  avert  from  their  country an  impending  calamity,  having  its  origin  either  in  mistaken  policy or  designed  usurpation  of  power.
The  works  of  fiction  which  have  had  the  greatest  effect  in  fixing the  love  of  country  in  the  youthful  bosom,  are  unquestionably those  in  which  the  characters  and  the  leading  features  are  taken from  real  history.  This  is  the  case  with  most  of  the  ancient  tra- gedies, as  well  as  most  of  those  of  Shakspeare;  and  it  is  doubtless from  this  circumstance  that  the  beneficial  effects  upon  mankind, attributed  to  them  by  ]\Ir.  Pope,  in  his  prologue  to  the  tragedy of  Cato,  have  been  produced.  That  beautiful  production  (the tragedy)  would  itself  lose  the  greater  portion  of  the  interest  which is  felt  in  its  perusal,  if  we  did  not  kno^v'  from  undoubted  history, that  the  sentiments  and  feelings  of  Cato  were  such  as  he  is  there made  to  utter,  and  his  actions  such  as  are  there  described.  All well  calculated  to
"Make  mankind  in  conscious  virtue  bold."
The  efiect,  however,  which  ]Mr.  Pope  attributes  to  tragedy  in changing  the  "savage  natures"  of  tyrants,  is  not  so  apparent. Miserable  indeed,  would  be  the  situation  of  mankind  if  that  were their  reliance  to  escape  oppression.  But  I  concei^e  that  the operation,  as  well  of  tragedy  as  history  itself,  is  more  direct.  In- stead of  palliating  and  lessening  the  evil  when  it  shall  have  exist- ence, their  great  object  is  (and  such  is  certainly  their  effect)  to prevent  its  occurrence.  Instead  oi  soficnhig  the  hearts  of  tyrants, to  harden  those  of  the  people  against  all  tyrants  and  usurpers, whatever  may  be  the  degree  of  usurpation  or  the  character  of  the tyranny,  and  to  warn  them  of  the  insiduous  means  by  which  their confidence  is  obtained,  for  the  purpose  of  being  betrayed.
If  J  truly  estimate  the  value  of  a  knowledge  of  history,  gentle- men, by  the  citizens  of  a  republic,  you  will  unite  with  me  in  de- ploring the  existence  of  any  circumstances  which  would  have  a tendency  to  supersede  or  lessen  the  attention  which  was  once paid  to  it  in  our  seminaries  of  learning,  and  more  es[)ecially  if one  of  the  causes  should  be  found  in  the  increasing  love  of  riches,
*  See  note  A,  in  the  A}:>pendi.x.
ABORIGINES    OF    THP:    OHIO    VALLEY.  .  7
rendering  our  youth  impatient  of  studies  wiiich  are  not  essential to  enable  them  to  enter  upon  the  professional  career  which  the}- have  chosen,  as  the  means  of  obtaining  that  wealth  whicli.is  so universally  sought  after.
As  your  association,  gentlemen,  was  formed  for  the  ])urpose  of procuring  and  preserving  materials  for  the  lu'story  of  our  own State,  rather  than  to  encourage  attention  to  that  of  other  coun- tries, these  remarks  may  be  considered  a  digression  ;  I  shall,  tfiero- forc,  add  nothing  more  on  that  subject,  but  proceed  to  present to  you  some  notices  and  remarks  more  in  accordance  with  the wishes  expressed  in  your  invitation  to  prepare  this  paper.
It  is  somev.'hat  remarkable  that  Ohio,  admitted  into  the  Union before  either  of  the  other  northwestern  States,  so  far  ahead  of either  in  point  of  population,  and  having  its  position  precisei}^ intermediate  between  them  and  the  European  colonies,  from Avhence  the  emigration  to  all  of  them  came,  should  have  been  thsij last  that  was  settled.
Fifty-five  years  ago,  there  was  not  a  Christian  inhabitant  within the  bounds  v/hich  now  compose  the  State  of  Ohio.  And  if,  a iew  years  anterior  to  that  period,  a  traveler  had  been  passing ■down  the  magnificent  river,  which  forms  our  southern  boundary, he  might  not  have  seen,  in  its  whole  course  of  eleven  hundred miles,  a  single  human  being, — certainly  not  a  habitation,  nor  rlie vestige  of  one,  calculated  for  the  residence  of  man.  He  might, indeed,  have  seen  indications  that  it  Avas  not  always  thus.  His eye  might  have  rested  upon  some  stupendous  mound,  or  length- ened lines  of  ramparts,  and  traverses  of  earth  still  of  considerable elevation,  which  proved  that  the  country  had  once  been  possessed by  a  numerous  and  laborious  people.  But  he  would  have  seeri, also,  indubitable  evidences  that  centuries  had  passed  away,  since these  remains  had  been  occuj)ied  by  those  for  whose  use  they had  been  reared.  Whilst  ruminating  upon  the  causes  which  had occasioned  their  removal,  he  would  not  fail  to  arrive  at  the  con- ■clusion,  that  their  departure  (if  they  did  depart)  must  have  been a  matter  of  necessity.  For  no  people,  in  any  stage  of  civilization. would  willingly  have  abandoned  si/c/i  a  country,  endeared  to  tliem -as  it  must  have  been,  by  long  residence  and  tlie  labor  the}-  had l)estowed  upon  it,  unless,  like  the  descendants  of  Abraham,  they had  fled  from  the  face  of  a  t\rant,-and  the  oppressions  of  unfeel- ing task-masters.  If  they  had  been  made  to  yield  to  a  more numerous  or  more  gallant  peojjle,  what  country  had  received  the fugitives?  and  what  has  become  of  the  conquerors?  Had  they, too,  been  forced  to  fly  before  a  new  swarm  from  some  northern <^>r  southern  hive?    Still  would  the  question  recur.  What  had  been
8  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.  '*
their  fate?  And  why  had  so  large  a  portion  of  a  country,  so  beau- tiful and  invnting,  so  abounding  in  all  that  is  desirable  in  tht- rudest  as  well  as  the  most  advanced  state  of  society,  been  left  as ii  haunt  for  the  beasts  of  the  forest,  or  as  an  occasional  arena  for distant  tribes  of  savages  to  mingle  in  mortal  conflicts  ?  To  aid  us in  coming  to  any  thing  like  a  satisfactory  conclusion  in  answer  to those  questions,  we  possess  only  a  solitary  recorded  fact.'"  For every  thing  else,  we  must  search  amidst  the  remains  which  are still  before  us,  for  all  that  we  wish  to  know  of  the  history  and character  of  this  ancient  and  nameless  people.
And  although  the  result  of  such  an  examination  may  be  far  from satisfactory,  it  will  not  be  entirely  barren  of  information.  We learn  first,  from  the  extensive  country  covered  by  their  remains, that  they  were  a  numerous  people.  Secondly,  that  they  were congregated  in  considerable  cities,  from  the  extensive  works  with which  several  favorite  situations  are  covered.  Thirdly,  that  they were  essentially  an  agricultural  people;  because,  collected  as  they were  in  great  numbers,  they  could  ha\'e  depended  upon  the  chase
■^  The  '•recorded  fact,"  to  which  allusion  is  here  made,  is  the  migration  of the  Aztecs  frum  the  North,  the  memory  of  which  is  preserved  in  the  pictorial annals  of  the  Mexican  race;  and  this  fact  unquestionably  suggests  a  possible connexion  of  the  extraordinary  works,  that  are  found  in  the  region  northwest «>f  the  Oliio,  with  a  known  race  of  men,  who  had  attain  ;d  a  degree  of  civiliza- tion competent  to  the  execution  of  such  structures.  All  beyond  this  belongs to  the  region  of  conjecture.
It  is  generally  admitted,  that  the  mounds,  terraces,  and  other  works,  of which  visible  remains  exist  in  many  portions  of  this  region,  evince  a  degree  of >kill,  nut  known  to  have  I)een  possessed  by  native  tribes,  which  occupied  the present  Territory  of  the  United  States  of  America,  at  the  time  of  its  discovery by  the  Europeans.*  None  of  the  works  in  question  bore  the  appearance  at that  time,  of  being  of  recent  structure.  None  of  the  tribes,  since  their  man- ners and  customs  began  to  be  noticed  by  travelers  or  colonists,  have  been observed  to  be  in  the  habit  of  erecting  any  similar  works,  for  the  purposes  of sepulture,  castrametation,  or  agriculture.  At  the  present  day,  there  is  not known  to  be  any  tribe  of  the  native  population  of  the  continent  possessed  of tlie  numbers,  to  say  nothing  of  the  skill,  inqilied  in  the  construction  of  these extensive  and  remarkable  works.  Nature  has  borne  an  unequivocal  testi- mony to  their  antifiuity,  in  the  size  and  evident  age  of  the  forest  trees,  that are  found  <^rowing  on  the  sunmiits  of  these  mounds,  and  within  the  enclosure and  on  the  sides  of  these  ramparts  or  terraces.
*  Mr.  Gallatin  cxpre-ses  himself  witii  rather  less  positiveness  on  this  point,  than  most oihcr  writei-.  have  thought  it  necessary  to  eniploj-:  "There  i?  nothing  in  their  construction," he  rein:tr>.-i.  "nor  in  the  remnants  which  they  contain,  indicative  of  a  iinic'i.  more  advanced state  of  civilization,  than  that  of  the  present  inhabitants.  But  it  may  be  interred,  from  their number  and  size,  that  they  were  the  v.-ori<  of  a  more  populous  nation  than  any  iiow  existing; and,  if  this  inference  is  correct,  it  would  necessarily  imply  a  state  of  society,  in  which  greater progress  had  been  made  in  ■j.'ix\c\\\\\i.xiz."'-'r  rait  sad  ions  of  the  A>>:cruan  Atitiqu,xri<iu Socuty,  \o!.  II,  p.  147.
'I  his  brinirs  us  to  the  same  conchisiori  as  to  the  diversity  of  the  race,  by  which  the  mounds were  erected,  from  that  vhicli  is  now  fast  hastening  to  extinction.
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  9
hut  for  a  small  portion  of  their  subsistence;  and  there  is  no  reasons to  believe  that  they  were  in  the  possession  of  domestic  animals^ as  the  onl}^  one  known  to  the  American  continent  before  the  arri- val of  the  Europeans  (the  lama  of  Peru)  was  unsuiled  by  nature to  endure  the  rigors  of  a  winter  in  this  latitude.  The  impossibility of  assigning  any  other  purpose  to  which  the  greater  number,  and many  of  the  largest  of  these  remains  could  be  applied,  together with  other  appearances  scarcely  to  be  misunderstood,  confirm  the fact  that  they  possessed  a  national  religion;  in  the  celebration  of which,  all  tliat  was  pompous,  gorgeous,  and  imposing,  that  a  semi- barbarous  nation  could  devise,  was  brought  into  occasional  dis- play. That  there  vvere  a  numerous  priesthood,  and  altars  often smoking  with  hecatombs  of  victims.  These  same  circumstances^ also  indicate,  that  they  had  made  no  inconsiderable  progress  in the  art  of  building,  and  that  their  habitations  had  been  ample and  convenient,  if  not  neat  or  splendid.  Man  in  every  age  and and  nation  has  provided  for  his  own  defence  against  the  elements^. before  he  even  designates  any  peculiar  spot  for  the  worship  of  his
There  are  lliree  suppositions  by  some  one  of  which  their  existence  nuist  be accounted  for.  They  were  either  constructed  by  some  race  of  men  sufficiently civilized  for  this  purpose,  but  of  whom  no  historical  memorial,  nor  any  other trace  remains,  and  who,  by  causes  of  whicli  we  ai-e  entirely  ignorant,  have wholly  perished;  or  they  were  the  works  of  the  Aztecs  sojourning  in  this- region,  before  their  migration  southward  to  the  elevated  plains  of  Anahuac  ; or,  lastly,  they  were  erected  by  the  ancestors  of  some  of  the  tribes  found  by the  European  colonists  in  this  part  of  the  continent, — in  which  case  those tribes  are  to  be  regarded  as  the  degenerate  and  broken-down  remains  of  more improved  ancient  races.
Of  the  first  supposition  nothing  more  can  be  said,  than  that  it  is  a  theory  by which  we  give  a  rational  explanation  of  existing  facts ;  the  principal  strength of  which  theory  dwells  in  the  assumed  impossibilit}-,  that  these  wor'lis  couUl have  been  erected  by  tribes  no  more  advanced  in  civilization  than  the  Indi- an>,  found  in  the  continent  two  centuries  and  a-half  ago,  and  in  the  suppose(J want  of  any  hi^>torical  indication  pointing  to  a  different  origin.  It  is  saying,. in  other  words,  that  they  were  made  by  the  art  and  labor  of  men,  but  we know  not  of  wliat  men.  Their  memory  is  buried  in  the  depth  and  silence  of the  venerable  forests,  which  cover  these  works  of  their  hands.
1  he  innate  propensity  of  the  mind  to  generalize  its  ideas  has  given  greater currency  to  the  second  supposition.  The  universal  current  of  the  Mexicans, and  the  express  testimony  of  their  hieroglyphical  annals  (if  the  interpretation can  be  depended  on,  which  was  given  in  the  age  of  the  Spanish  conquest,  by those  who  must  have  been  well  acquainted  with  their  symbolic  characters), point  to  a  descent  of  the  Aztecs  from-<he  north,  and  ascribe  to  them  a  pro- gress sufficiently  gradual,  to  aflmit  of  the  election  of  permanant  structures  by the  way.  T}ic:-e  facts  have  led  the  majority  of  writers  to  assume  the  second a>  the  more  probable  account  of  the  origin  of  these  works.  Such  is  General ilarri.son's  o[jinion.  In  conformity  v.ith  this  view  of  the  subject,  the  name  of Aztalan  has  been  appropriated  to  the  remarkable  works,  which  exi.-,t  in  the territory  of  Wisconsin. — E.  Evlrktt,  in  A^.-^.  AVv.,  July,  1840.
lO  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
<iou.  In  rigorous  climates  the  hut  will  always  precede  the  uncov- •cred  altar  of  earth  or  stone,  and  the  well-built  city  before  the temple  is  made  to  shoot  its  spires  to  the  skies.
Thus  much  do  these  ancient  remains  furnish  us,  as  to  the  con- /fitio/i  and  character  of  the  people  who  erected  them.  I  have persuaded  myself  that  I  have  gleaned  from  them,  also,  some  inter- esting facts  in  their  history.  It  may,  however,  be  proper  lirst  to remark,  that  the  solitary  recorded  fact  to  which  I  have  alluded,  to -enable  us  to  determine  their  ultimate  fate,  is  that  which  has  been furnished  to  us  by  the  historians  of  Mexico.
The  pictural  records  of  that  nation,  ascribe  their  origin  to  the Aztecs,  a  people  who  are  said  to  have  arrived  first  in  Mexico about  the  middle  of  the  seventh  century.  An  American  author, the  Rt.  Rev.  Dishop  ^ladison,  of  Virginia,  having  with  much iabor  investigated  this  subject,  declares  his  conviction  that  these Aztecs  are  one  and  the  same  people  with  those  who  once  inhab- ited the  valley  of  the  Ohio.  The  probabilities  are  certainly  in favor  of  this  opinion.  Adopting  it,  therefore,  and  knowing  by  it the  date  of  their  arrival  on  the  northwest  frontier  of  Mexico,  we refer  again  to  the  works  they  have  left  us,  to  gain  what  knowledge we  can  of  the  cause  and  manner  of  their  leaving  the  Ohio  valley. I' or  the  reasons  formerly  stated,  I  assume  the  fact  that  they  were <:om])clled  to  t^y  from  a  more  numerous  or  more  gallant  people.
No  doubt  the  contest  was  long  and  bloody,  and  that  the  coun- try, so  long  their  residence,  was  not  abandoned  to  their  rivals until  their  numbers  were  too  much  reduced  to  continue  the  con- test. Taking  into  consideration  all  the  circumstances  wliich  can be  collected  from  the  works  they  have  left  on  the  ground,  I  have <:ornc  to  the  conclusion  that  these  people  were  assailed  both  from their  northern  and  southern  frontier;  made  to  recede  from  both directions,  and  that  their  last  effort  at  resistance,  was  made  on the  banks  of  the  Ohio.  I  have  adopted  this  opinion,  from  the <i!ffcrent  character  of  tlieir  work.s,  which  are  there  found,  from th')>c  in  the  interior.  Cireat  as  some  of  the  latter  are,  and  labo- rious as  was  the  construction,  particularly  those  of  Circleville  and Newark.  I  am  pursuaded  they  were  never  intended  for  military <!eJenres.  On  the  contrary,  those  upon  the  C)hio  Ri\er  were evidently  designed  for  that  purpose.  The  three  that  I  have -examined,  those  of  Marietta,  Cinci^inati,  and  the  mouth  of  the (ireat  Miami,  particularly  the  latter,  have  a  military  character stanij.ed  uj>on  them  which  can  not  l)e  mistaken.  The  latter  work, and  that  at  Circleville.  never  could  have  been  erected  by  the same  i>eoi>le,  if  intended  for  military  purposes.  The  square,  at the  latter  place,  has  such  a  number  of  gatev/ays,  as  seem  intended
ABORIGINES    OF    THE   OHIO    VALLEY.  I  [
to  facilitate  the  entrance  of  those  v.'ho  would  attack  it.  And  both it  and  the  circle  were  completely  commanded  by  the  mound, rendering  it  an  easier  matter  to  take,  than  defend  it.  The  engi- neers, on  the  contrary,  who  directed  the  execution  of  the Miami  works,  appear  to  ha\e  known  the  importance  of  flank defences.  And  if  their  bastions  are  not  as  perfect,  as  to  form,  as those  which  are  in  use  in  modern  engineering,  their  position  as well  as  that  of  the  long  lines  of  curtains,  are  precisely  as  the}' should  be.  I  have  another  conjecture  as  to  this  Miami  fortress. If  the  people  of  whom  we  ha^•e  been  speaking  were  really  the Aztecs,  the  direct  course  of  their  journey  to  Mexico,  and  the facilities  which  that  mode  of  retreat  would  afford,  seems  to  point out  the  descent  of  the  Ohio  as  the  line  of  that  retreat.
This  position,  then,  (the  lowest  which  they  appear  to  have  for- tified on  the  Ohio,)  strong  by  nature,  and  improved  by  the  expen- diture of  great  labor,  directed  by  no  inconsiderable  degree  of  skill. Avould  be  the  last  hold  they  would  occupy  and  the  scene  of  their last  efforts  to  retain  possession  of  the  country  they  had  so  long inhabited.  I'he  interest  which  every  one  feels,  who  visits  this beautiful  and  commanding  spot,  would  be  greatly  heightened  if he  could  persuade  himself  of  the  reasonableness  of  my  deductions, from  the  facts  1  have  stated.  That  this  elevated  ridge,  from which  are  now  to  be  seen  flourishing  villages,  and  plains  of  unri- valled fertilily,  possessed  by  a  people  in  the  full  enjoyment  ot ])eace  and  liberty,  and  all  that  peace  and  liberty  can  give,  v/hose matrons,  like  those  of  Sparta,  have  never  seen  the  smoke  of  an enemy's  fire,  once  presented  a  scene  of  war,  and  war  in  its  most horrid  form,  where  blood  is  the  object,  and  the  deficiencies  ot the  field  made  up  by  the  slaughter  of  innocence  and  imbecility. That  it  was  here  that  a  feeble  band  was  collected  "remnant  o( mighty  battles  fought  in  vain,'"  to  make  a  last  effort  for  the  coun- try of  their  birth,  the  ashes  of  their  ancestors,  and  the  altars  of their  gods.  That  the  crisis  was  met  with  fortitude,  and  sustained with  valor,  need  not  be  doubted.  The  ancestors  of  Quitlavaca and  Gautimosin,  and  their  devoted  followers,  could  not  be  cow- ards. But  their  efforts  were  vain,  and  flight  or  death  were  tlie sad  alternatives.  Whatever  n-jight  be  their  object  in  ado})ting the  former,  whether,  like  the  Trojan  remnant,  to  seek  another country,  "and  liajjpier  walls,""  ox.like  tluit  of  Ithome,  to  procure l^rescnt  safety  and  renovated  strength,  for  a  distant  day  of  \-en- geance,  we  have  no  means  of  ascertaining.  i>ut  there  is  ever}- reason  to  believe,  that  they  were  the  founders  of  a  great  empire, and  that  ages  before  they  assumed  the  more  modern  and  distin- guished name  of  Mexicans,  the  Aztecs  had  lost  in  the  more  mild
12  HARRISON  S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
and  uniform  climate  of  Anahuac,  all  remembrance  of  the  banks  of the  Ohio.  But  whatever  may  have  been  their  fate,  our  peculiar interest  in  them  ceases  after  their  departure  from  the  Miami.* In  relation  to  their  conquerors,  I  have  little  to  say,  and  perhaps, that  little  not  very  satisfactory.  Although  I  deny  the  occupation of  the  banks  of  the  Ohio,  for  centuries  before  its  discovery  by  the P>uropeans,  I  think  that  there  are  indubitable  marks  of  its  being thickly  inhabited  by  a  race  of  men,  inferior  to  the  authors  of  the great  works  we  have  been  considering,  after  the  departure  of  the latter.  Upon  many  places,  remains  of  potter}-,  pipes,  stone hatchets,  and  other  articles,  are  found  in  great  abundance,  which are  evidently  of  inferior  v/orkmanship  to  those  of  the  former people.  But  I  have  one  other  fact  to  offer,  which  furnishes  still better  evidence  of  my  opinion.  I  have  before  mentioned  Cin- cinnati as  one  of  the  positions  occupied  by  the  more  civilized people.  When  I  first  saw  the  upper  plain  on  which  that  city stands,  it  was  literally  covered  with  low  lines  of  embankments. I  had  the  honor  to  attend  C^eneral  Wayne,  two  years  afterward, in  an  excursion  to  examine  them.  \\'e  were  employed  the greater  part  of  a  day,  in  August,  1793,  in  doing  so.  The  number and  variety  of  figures  in  which  these  lines  were  drawn  was  almost endless,  and,  as  I  have  said,  almost  covered  the  plain.  Many  so fuint,  indeed,  as  scarcely  to  be  followed,  and  often  for  a  considcr- al>le  distance  entirely  obliterated,  but  by  careful  examination, and  following  the  direction,  they  could  be  again  found.  Now,  if these  lines  were  ever  of  the  height  of  the  others  made  by  the same  people,  (and  they  must  have  been,  to  have  answered  any valuable  purpose,)  or  unless  their  erection  was  many  ages  anterior to  the  others,  there  must  have  been  some  other  cause  than  the attrition  of  the  rain  (for  it  is  a  dead  level)  to  bring  them  down  to their  then  state.  That  cause  I  take  to  have  been  continued  cul- tivation. And  as  the  people  who  erected  them,  would  not  them- selves destroy  works  which  had  cost  them  so  much  labor,  the solution  of  the  sjucstion  can  only  be  found  in  the  long  occupancy, and  cultivation  of  another  j)eople,  and  the  probability  is,  that lliai  people  werre  the  conquerors  of  the  original  possessors.  'i\> tlie  <|uestion  ot  tlie  fate  of  the  former,  and  the  cause  of  no  recent vestige  of  settlements  being  found  on  the  Ohio,  I  can  offer  only a  conjecture;  but  one  which  aiJpear.s  to  me  to  be  far  from  im- probable. Since  the  first  settlement  of  the  Ohio  by  the  whites, they  have  been  visited  by  two  unsually  destructive  freshets,  one in  1793,  and  the  other  in  1832.     The  latter  was  from  five  to  seven
*  See  note  fi,  in  tlic  Appendix.
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VAELEV.  1 3
feet  higlier  tlian  the  former.  The  latter  was  produced  by  a  simul- taneous fall  of  rain,  upon  an  unusually  extensive  frozen  surface. The  learned  Dr.  Locke,  of  Cincinnati,  calculated  the  number  of inches  of  rain  that  fell,  and  as  far  as  it  could  be  ascertained,  the extent  of  surface  which  was  subject  to  it,  and  his  conclusion  was, that  the  height  of  the  water  at  Cincinnati,  did  not  account,  after allowing  for  evaporation,  etc.,  for  all  the  water  that  fell.  In other  words,  that  with  the  same  fall  of  rain,  other  circumstances concurring,  the  freshet  might  have  been  some  feet  liigher.  Now these  causes  might  have  combined  at  another  time  to  pour  tlie waters  of  the  tributary  streams  into  the  main  trunk  more  nearh- together,  and  thus  produce  a  height  of  water  equal  to  that  de- scribed by  an  Indian  chief,  ( to  which  he  said  he  was  an  eye-wit- ness,) to  General  Wilkinson,  at  Cincinnati,  in  the  fall  of  1792. And  which,  if  true,  must  have  been  several  feet,  (eight  or  ten,) at  least,  higher  than  that  of  1832.  The  occurrence  of  such  a flood,  when  the  banks  of  the  Ohio  were  occupied  by  numerous Indian  towns  and  villages,  nearly  all  which  must  have  been  swept off,  was  well  calculated  to  determine  them  to  a  removal,  not  only from  actual  suffering,  but  from  the  suggestions  of  superstition ;  an occurrence  so  unsual,  being  construed  into  a  warning  from  heaven, to  seek  a  residence  upon  the  smaller  streams.  Before  the  remem- brance of  these  events  had  been  obliterated  by  time,  the  aban- doned region  would  become  an  unusual  resort  for  game,  and  a common  hunting  ground  for  the  hostile  tribes  of  the  north  and south,  and,  of  course,  an  arena  for  battle.  Thus  it  remained when  it  was  first  visited  by  the  whites.'-'
*  A  new  species  of  evidence,  of  a  very  peculiar  and  satisfactory  character, has,  since  the  publication  of  Cieneral  Harrison's  Discourse,  been  brought  for- ward, to  establish  the  identity  of  the  races  of  the  mounds,  with  those  which had  made  such  advances  in  civilization,  in  the  more  southern  portions  of  the continent.  \Vc  allude  to  the  reseml)lance  of  the  skulls,  which  have  been found  in  the  mounds  in  the  northwestern  region,  to  those  which  have  been discovered  in  similar  ancient  works  in  Mexico  and  Peru.  This  important comparison  was  first  instituted  by  Dr.  J.  C.  Warren  of  IJoston.  ^I'he  result of  his  ol>;iervations  was  conmiunicated  to  the  British  Association  for  the  ad- vancement of  science,  at  their  meeting  in  Liverpool,  in  1S37.  Dr.  Warren stated  thai  he  had  for  some  time  been  a  collector  of  crania  from  the  mounds, and  found  them  to  differ  from  the  skulls  of  the  present  races  of  North  Amer- ican Indians.  On  returning  home  one  day,  he  found  some  skulls  upon  his table,  which  had  been  sent  to  him  in  his  alxscnce,  and  which  he  perceived  at  a glance  to  bear  a  strong  re^emljlance  to  the  mound  skulls.  As  such,  he  sup- posed them  to  have  been  sent  him,  by  some  friend  in  the  Western  State>. He  soon  discovered,  that  they  were  ancient  Peruvian  skulls,  which  liad  been j)rocured  foi  him  in  South  America.  I'urther  comparisons  satisiied  Dr.  War- ren, of  the  identity  of  the  trii;es  that  reared  the  mounds  with  the  Peruvian race.
  .......•■■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinnumninnininii!tni11^
f4  llAKRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
liavin^:^  given  all  the  facts  which  1  could  collect,  and  some  of the  conjectures  1  have  formed  in  relation  to  the  most  ancient people  who  have  inhabited  our  State.  I  next  proceed  to  make some  remarks  upon  the  tribes  who  were  our  immediate  predeces- v^>rs.
Frrun  our  long  acquaintance  with  these  tribes,  extending  con- >ii!cr.ibiv  beyond  the  commencement  of  our  revolutionary  war,  and
Mr.  Dclaf.eld,  in  his  recent  "Inquiry  into  the  Origin  of  the  Antiquities  of .Kmcrioi,"  referring  to  these  statements  of  Dr.  Warren,  observes,  that  they arc  fully  contirrned  by  the  examinations  made  by  himseh".  *  Dr.  Morton,  in his  recent  sjilendid  work  on  the  American  skulls,  concludes  froni  his  extensive coa?}..-irison  of  crania,  "that  the  cranial  remains,  discovered  in  the  mounds I'rujn  Tcru  to  Wisconsin,  belong  to  the  same  race,  and  probably  to  the  Tolte- \-2n  family.''  t
The  tliird  opinion  above  alluded  to  is,  that  the  Indian  tribes,  found  by  the Kuri»|Kans  on  our  continent,  are  to  be  regarded  as  the  degenerate  and  broken- down  remains  of  more  improved  races;  the  descendants  of  ancestors  more civiii/c<l  than  iheniselves.
Wc  are  not  prepared  to  express  a  preference  of  this  theory  over  the  others^ — «;n  the  contrary,  in  the  present  state  of  our  knowledge  on  the  subject,  we arc  inclincil  to  hold  our  minds  free  for  the  adoption  of  any  \iew  of  the  subject, which  a  larger  accumulation  of  lacts  may  render  probable.  We  will  only  say, :hit  t!ii-»  !n-t  supposition  is  in  no  degree  inconsistent  with  inubability.  A tJr-^ciitraey  of  this  kind,  even  on  the  part  of  races  much  further  advanced  in ci»iIt/-aiion,  than  it  is  necessary  to  suppose  the  authors  of  the  American •H4  und>  .niul  ramparts  to  have  been,  is  not  an  uncommon  occurrence  in  the h.%ti)ry  I'f  ilie  Morld.  A  considerable  part  of  Asia,  including  Egypt,  is  inb. ai)- itf^t  by  I  lie  degenerate  descendants  of  liighly  cultivated  ancestors.  Even « ifi-c.-c,  —  that  country,  in  which  physical  civilization  was  carried  hi-her  than •t  ha^.  cvlt  been  in  any  other. — has  been  in  after  times  occupied  by  a  poster- ity, certainly  as  little  able  to  c<:)nceive  or  execute  the  works  of  Ictinus  and I'h.dia-,  a-,  the  Wyandot-,  or  Mianiis  to  contrust  the  mounds  of  tlie  Mu-kin- .^-m  ft  .^cioto.  And  yet  we  must  suppose  that,  for  the  last  eighteen  ceur-.i- »>«-%  ihe  civilized  population  of  every  part  of  Europe  has  been  far  less  exposed »o  all  ihc  c.'.u-es  of  degeneracy,  than  the  aboriginal  population  of  this  cMiti- •»^it.  «5c^tl•l;^r-  as  it  was  of  the  art  of  writing,  the  great  preserver  of  all  other *»:k.  We  b.lhjld  the  descendants  of  that  very  Mexican  or  Peruvian  popula- e»-«.  «?ii.Ji  is  generally  supposed  to  be  the  race  by  whom  these  works  were •->*T^-i.-.a!jv  C'ln-tructed,  and  who  are  known  to  have  been  comijetent,  at  the I  rr.^  ..f  \u^  c.inque.>t  and  for  several  preceding  ages,  to  the  erection  of  struct- ^fr*.  r-.-re  j^-rnianant  tlian  any  of  which  remains  are  found  in  the  North- •  rkV'i  ^Mtcs  and  Territories  of  our  Union,  reduced  at  the  present  day  to  a '  '•- I'-,  n,  iu  which  they  are  equally  incapable  to  plan  or  execute  any  such «  •'*-^;  a  curious  s|>ecimen  of  a  native  civilization  not  furthered  and  im- j«--'»»-i.  i-M'.  tfu-.hed  and  destroyed,  by  a  more  advanced  supervening  foreign ■■'•'■  n^
'.  t'.t.- entire  question  as  to  the  original  settlement  of  our  continent •  '!'-  I  to  battle  the  resources  of  human  investigation.       To  say  noth-
.;  ■  ;  ;.'.<?  inference  fairly  to  be  deduced  from  the  Scriptures,  that  sound   phi-
"  '« '-r.    *hivli    teaches  us  to   prefer   the   simplest   explanations  of  exi.^ting
U.
prefer   the  simplest   exp ify.  p.  1 6.  t  .Morion'-s  Cra)iia  Ain.ruuna,  p.  260.
ABORTGIXES    OF    THE    OHIO   VALLEY.  1 5,
from  the  intimate  connection  which  has  subsisted  between  them and  ns,  since  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  in  1795,  it  may  be  pre- sumed that  we  are  as  well  acquainted  with  their  history  as  we could  be,  when  our  reliance  must  be  placed  on  their  statements, and  traditions,  or  by  comparing  those  with  the  few  facts  which could  be  collected  from  other  sources.
l"he  tribes  resident  within  the  bounds  of,  this  State,  when  the
phenomena,  bids  us  look  to  an  emigration  from  northeastern  Asia,  as  the source  of  the  population  of  this  continent;  and  the  most  judicious  writers  are disposed,  with  Humboldt,  to  date  that  emigration  from  the  fifth  or  sixth  cen- tury of  our  era;  a  period  at  which  it  is  known,  that  the  nations  of  north- eastern Asia  were  in  extensive  agitation  and  movement.  ]]ut  this  solution  of the  great  difficulty  is  met  at  the  threshold  by  popular  and  pretty  obvious objection,  that  although  a  lapse  of  twelve  or  thirteen  centuries  is  by  no  means sufficient  to  destroy  all  affinity  of  language  between  races  descended  from  the same  stock,  we  fin.l  no  resemblance  whatever,  beyond  that  which  may  be ascribtd  to  casual  coincidence,  between  the  vocabularly  of  any  of  the  native languages  of  America  and  that  of  any  of  the  Innguages  of  the  elder  continent. Wherever  in  Europe  or  Asia  we  have  the  means  of  instituting  the  comparison, we  find  the  tribes  of  men  exceedingly  tenacious  of  the  radical  and  substantial parts  of  a  language.  'Ihere  is  probably  no  instance  in  which  a  vocabulary has  wholly  disappeared,  except  where  the  race  speaking  it  has  been  wholly destroyed.
We  shall,  however,  by  no  means  escape  this  diftlculty  by  assuming,  with some  of  the  French  philosophers  of  the  last  century  and  their  disciples,  a primitive  plurality  of  the  races  of  man.  Apart  from  the  objections  to  this a-vumption,  which  arise  from  the  cosnif  gony  of  the  Scriptures,  and  other difficulties  which  might  be  >-tatcd,  this  very  difficulty  of  language  exists  in  an unmitigated  form.  The  dialects  of  the  native  tribes  of  North  and  South America  are  exceedingly  numerous,  but  are  probably  capable  of  being  reduced to  a  small  number  of  families.  Of  these  families,  however,  .Mr.  (iallatin,  in his  masterly  treatise  on  tlie  Indian  tribes  of  Xorth  America,  has  enumerated twenty-nine.  Altliough,  in  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Du  Ponceau,  which  is  adopted by  Mr.  Gallatin,  there  is  a  general  pulysy)ilhetiL  strnctiii-L',  in  all  the  An:ierican languages  which  have  been  examined,  in  which  they  resemble  each  other  and differ  from  the  ancient  and  mcjdern  languages  of  the  elder  continent,  there  is yet  a  large  number  of  families  of  languages  on  our  continent,  which  appear  to be  utterly  destitute  of  resemblance  with  each  other,  as  far  as  the  vocalndarly is  concerned.  This  is  even  not  unfrequently  the  case  with  tribes,  who  were found  by  the  first  settlers  adjacent  to  each  other.  Jt  is  evident  that,  on  the theory  above  alluded  to,  of  an  original  plurality  of  the  races  of  human  family, this  difficulty  would  yjresent  itself  in  undiminished  force;  and  that  it  is  no more  difficult,  on  the  theory  of  a  Common  origin,  to  conceive  of  an  entire dissimilanty  betv.cen  the  languages  respectively  of  the  American  and  Asiatic contineiit,  as  produced  by  a  non-intercourse  and  geographical  separation  of ten  or  twelve  centuries,  than  to  concci^'e  of  a  like  dissimilarity,  between  the different  families  of  languages  of  the  American  tribes,  which  has  disclosed itself  on  the  examination  ot'  iljcir  vocabularies,  as  the  effect  of  a  similar  cause. i  his  difficulty,  therefore,  if  deemed  decisive  against  an  Asiatic  origin  of  the -Vnierican  races,  would  go  the  length  of  requiring  an  original  creation  for every  family  rtf  languages  ;  a  ]jrop(isition  loo  extravagant  to  be  discussed. — E.. EvLktTi,  in  X.-A.  /uv.,  July,  1840.
1 6  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
iirst  white  settlement  commenced,  were  the  Wyandots,  Miamis, Shawanees,  Dclawares,  a  remnant  of  the  iMoheigans,  (who  had united  themselves  with  the  Delawares,)  and  a  band  of  the  Ottawas. There  may  also  have  been,  at  this  time,  some  bands  from  the Seneca  and  Tuscaroras  tribes  of  the  Iroquois  or  Six  Nations, remaining  in  the  northern  part  of  the  State.  But  whether  resi- dent or  not,  the  country  for  some  distance  west  of  the  Penn- sylvania line,  certainly  belonged  to  them.  From  this,  their western  boundary,  (wherever  it  might  be,  but  certainly  east  of the  Scioto.)  the  claims  of  the  Miamis  "and  Wyandots  commenced. The  claims  of  tlie  latter  were  very  limited,  and  can  not  well  be admitted  to  extend  further  south  than  the  dividing  ridge  between the  waters  of  the  Scioto  and  Sandusky  Rivers,  nor  further  west than  the  Auglaise;  whilst  the  ]Miamis  and  their  kindred  tribes are  conceived  to  be  the  just  proprietors  of  all  the  remaining part  of  the  country  northwest  of  the  Ohio,  and  south  of  the southerly  bend  of  Lake  Michigan  and  the  Illinois  River.  I  am aware  that  this  is  not  the  commonly  received  opinion,  and  that  a contrary  one  was  promulgated  more  than  eighty  years  ago,  and sustained  by  the  efforts  of  some  of  the  most  distinguished  men  of our  countr}'.  A  subject  which  has  engaged  the  attention  of  our immortal  Franklin,  and  into  the  discussion  of  which,  we  are  told, *'the  late  DeWitt  Clinton,  of  New  York,  entered  with  much ardor,''  will  certainly  not  be  deemed  unworthy  our  attention  on this  occasion :  even  if  it  did  not  form  a  part  of  the  history  of  the country  which  we  ha\e  embraced  in  our  plan.  The  proposition against  which  I  contend,  asserts  the  right,  at  the  period  of  whicli I  am  speaking,  of  all  the  country  watered  by  the  Ohio,  to  tlie Iroquois,  or  Six  Nations,  in  consideration  of  their  having  con- quered the  tribes  which  originally  possessed  it.  This  confederacy, it  is  .said,  possessed  "at  once  the  ambition  of  the  Romans  for  con- quest, and  their  martial  talents  for  securing  it.''  Tike  that  celebrated ancient  people,  too,  they  manifested,  in  the  hour  of  victory,  "a moderation  equal  to  the  valor  which  they  displayed  in  it;'  the conquered  nations  being  always  spared,  and  either  incorporated in  their  confederacy,  or  subjected  to  so  small  a  tribute  as  to amount  merely  to  an  acknowledgment  of  the  supremacy  of  their conquerors.  That  under  the  guidance  of  this  spirit,  and  this policy,  they  had  extended  their  conquest  westward  to  the  Ali.'^sis- sippi;  and  south  to  the  Carolinas,  and  the  confmes  of  Georgia,  a space  embracing  more  than  half  of  the  whole  territory  of  the Union,  before  the  acquisition  of  Louisiana  and  Florida.  I  have nothing  to  do.  at  this  time,  with  the  conquests  in  other  directions, hut   I   shall  endeavor  to  prove  that  their  alleged  subjugation  of
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  1/
the  northwestern  tribes,  rests  upon  no  competent  autliority;  and tliat  the  favored  region  which  we  now  call  our  own,  as  well  as that  possessed  by  our  immediate  contiguous  western  sisters,  has been  for  many  centuries  as  it  now  is,
"The  land  of  the  free  and  the  home  of  the  brave."
I  neither  deny  the  martial  spirit  of  the  Iroquois,  nor  the  mag- nanimity of  their  policy  to  some  of  the  tribes  whom  they  subdued ; both  are  well  established.  But  I  contend,  that  whilst  they  had  a fair  field  for  the  exercise  of  all  that  they  possessed  of  the  former, in  a  war  with  an  ancient  tribe  of  Ohio,  they  had  no  opportunity for  the  display  of  the  latter,  from  the  indomitable  valor  of  the comparatively  small  nation  which  had  dared  to  oppose  itself  to the  extension  of  their  power.  That  a  portion  of  the  country  was subdued,  both  parties  admit;  as  they  do,  also,  that  if  the  termi- nation of  this  war  enabled  the  Iroquois  somewhat  to  extend  the limits  of  their  empire,  they  found  it  a  desert,  without  a  warrior  to adopt  into  their  nation,  or  a  female  to  exhibit  in  their  triumphant returns  to  their  villages.
I  will  now  proceed  to  state  grounds  upon  whicli  rest  the  claims of  the  Iroquois,  to  be  considered  the  conquerors  of  the  country to  the  Mississippi,  and  between  the  Ohio  and  the  lakes.
The  history  of  the  Iroquois,  or  Six  Nations,  was  written  by <Jadwallader  Golden,  Elsq.,  of  New  York,  who  v/as  a  member  of the  king's  council,  and  surveyor-general  of  the  province,  twenty- five  or  thirty  years  before  the  revolutionary  war.  I  have  never -seen  this  work,  and  shall  be  obliged  to  use  the  account  of  its  con- tents, as  far  as  relates  to  the  claims  of  conquests  made  by  the Iroquois,  given  by  Mann  Butler,  in  his  recent  history  of  Kentucky. According  to  the  authorities  quoted  by  this  gentleman,  the  ])osi- tion  occuj^ied  by  the  Iroquois,  when  the  French  settlement  was made  in  Canada,  was  "on  the  banks  of  the  St.  Lawrence,  above Quebec,  and  that  from  thence  they  extended  their  conquests  on both  sides  of  the  Lakes  Ontario,  Erie,  and  Huron.  In  this  career of  conquest,  with  a  magnanimity  and  sagacious  spirit,  worthy  of the  ancient  Romans,  and  superior  to  all  their  contemporary  tribes, they  successively  incorporated  the  -victims  of  their  arms  with  their own  confederacy."  He  goes  on  to  say,  condensing  the  account given  in  a  work  printed  by  Dodsley,  in  1755,  entitled  ''Present •"^tate  of  North  America,"  as  follows: — "In  1673,  these  tril)es  are represented  as  having  conquered  the  Ollinois,  or  Illinois,  residing <jn  the  Illinois  Ri\er,  and  they  are,  likewise,  at  the  same  time >>aid  to  have  conquered  and  incorporated  the  Satanas,  Chawanons or  Shawanons,  whom  they  had  formerly  driven  from  the  lakes.
iS  HARRISON'S    IIISTORICAI>   DISCOURSE.
To  these  conquests  they  are  said,  by  the  same  high  authorit}-,  tC' have  added  the  Twightwas,  (Tewietewes),  as  they  are  called  in the  journal  of  Major  "\\'ashington.  About  the  same  time,  they carried  tlieir  victorious  arms  to  the  Illinois  and  Mississippi  west- ward: and  to  Georgia,  southward.  About  the  year  171 1,  they incorporated  the  Tuscaroras,  when  driven  from  Carolina."'  '''T'he tribe  in  question,"  says  Governor  Pownal  in  his  administration of  tlic  liritish  colonies,  "about  the  year  1664,  carried  their  arms as  (av  south  as  Carolina,  and  as  tar  west  as  the  Mississippi,  over a  vast  country  which  extended  twelve  hundred  miles  in  length, and  about  six  hundred  in  breadth,  when  they  destroyed  whole nations,  of  whom  there  are  no  accounts  remaining  among  the British.  The  rights  of  these  tribes  to  the  hunting  lands  of  (3hio, meaning  the  river  of  that  name,  may  be  fairly  proved  by  the ron^juest  they  made  in  subduing  the  Shawonoes,  Delawares, 'I'iwictewees,  and  Ollinois,  as  they  stood  possessed  therof  at  the peace  of  Ryswick,  in  1697."  In  support  of  these  pretensions,  he furllier  quotes  a  paper  from  the  pen  of  Dr.  Franklin,  who,  upon. the  authority  of  Lewis  Evans,  a  gentleman  who  was  said  by  the Doctor  to  be  possessed  of  great  American  knowledge,  asserting that  "the  Shawonoes,  who  were  formerly  one  of  the  most  consid- a!)ie  nations  of  these  parts  of  America ;  whose  seat  extended  from Kentucky  southwestward  to  the  ^lississippi,  have  been  subdued by  the  confederate,  or  Six  Nations,  and  the  country  since  became their  proi)erty."  But  it  seems  that,  notwithstanding  the  bold a.vsertions  of  the  above-named  authors,  it  became  necessary,  at  a council  held  in  the  year  1744,  to  apply  to  the  Six  Nations  them- selves, to  know  the  extent  of  their  clainis.  That  it  was  favorable enough,  may  be  reasonal)ly  supposed.  Their  particular  answ^er will  be  (juoted  below.  At  another  treaty  with  the  Six  Nations,. held  at  Fort  Stanwix,  in  New  York,  in  1768,  the  Indians  were a^Mm  called  upon  to  state  the  extent  of  their  claims  upon  the <  >hio.  This  they  are  said  to  have  done  in  the  following  words, addressed  to  their  agent,  Sir  William  Johnson: — "You,  who know  ail  our  affair.s,  must  be  sensible  that  our  rights  go  much t  irtiier  south  than  the  Kenhawa,  and  that  we  have  a  very  good :irKl  clear  title,  as  far  south  as  the  Cherokee  River,  w^hich  we  can not  allow  to  be  the  right  of  any  other  Indians,  without  doing v.rong  Hi  our  posterity,  and  acling  unworthy  of  those  warriors who  fougiit  and  conquered  it.''  Upon  the  strength  of  this  declara- iton.  the_  title  of  the  Iroqucjis  to  the  valley  of  the  Ohio  was  i)ur- rha-ed  for  /^  10,476  13s.  6d.  sterling,  for  the  crown. "-'■
Ilic  hrench  autho;itic.s  now  accessi!;le  to  us  make  it   quite  certain  thai
ABORIGIXES   OF    THE    OHIU    AALLEY.  I9
It  will  ai  once  be  perceived,  that  tlie  mass  of  testimoin-  in favor  of  the  extensive  conquests  of  the  Iroquois,  rests  upon  their own  assertions.  A  fair  offset  to  them  will  be  found  in  the  account which  the  northwestern  Indians  have  given  of  their  own  history. But  before  1  have  recourse  to  this,  I  will  endeavor  to  clear  the way  by  examining  the  only  two  authorities  which  have  been adduced  in  support  of  the  pretensions  of  the  Iroquois.  The  first and  most  important  is  to  be  found  in  Colden's  History  o^  the  Six Nations.  That  author,  upon  the  authority,  he  says,  of  certain ancient  French  authors,  declares,  that  in  1672,  the  Iroquois  had canquered  the  Ollinois,  or  Illinois,  the  Chowetans,  or  Shawanees, whom  they  had  formally  driven  from  the  lakes,  and  in  1685,  thir- teen years  after,  the  Tiwictewees,  or  Miamis.  Mr.  Butler,  in  the introduction  to  his  history,  gives  an  account  of  the  early  voyages, of  discovery,  to  the  west  of  Lake  ^Michigan,  made  under  the governor  of  Canada.  The  tirst  of  these  was  made  by  Father Marquette.  His  principal  object  was  to  find  the  great  river  of  the west,  of  which  they  had  often  heard,  but  by  accounts  so  uncertain, that  it  was  a  matter  of  dispute,  whether  it  poured  its  mighty mass  of  water  into  the  Gulf  of  California,  that  of  Mexico,  or  into the  Atlantic  Ocean,  on  the  coast  of  \'irginia.  This  fatht-r  ];ro- ctreded  with  a  party,  in  two  canoes,  in  the  }ear  1673,  to  the  west side  of  Lake  Michigan,  and  coasting  it  southwardly  to  the  Bay dos  Puans,  (Green  Bay,)  ascended  to  the  Fox  River  the  Portage, communicating  with  the  Wisconsin,  and  down  the  latter  to  the Mississippi.  Pursuing  their  voyage  on  that  river  as  low  down  as the  Arkansas,  whence  they  returned  up  the  river,  and,  by  a  fort- unate circumstance,  under  the  (guidance  of  some  of  the  natives, entered  the  Illinois  River;  (of  the  existence  of  which  they  had no  previous  knowledge,)  and  ascending  it,  reached  the  southerly bend  of  Lake  Michigan,  and  returned  to  Green  Bay  by  a  better .'ind  shorter  route.  ^It  was  on  this  voyage  that  the  French  of F'anada  a]jpear  to  have  first  heard  of  the  Illinois  River  or  the Illinois  Indians.  And  yet  it  is  asserted,  that  previously  to  this }'-'ar,  their  near  neighbors,  with  whom  they  had  an  intimate  and
••e  Iroquoi.-s  conquered  tliei  Iliiiioi.->  a.s  early  as  16S0;  and  probably  made ''•cur>ions  into  the  territory  inlial^iied  by  ihe  latter  prior  to  tliat  date.  La- "'^'i-,   in  that  y.-ar,   found   the   lu'iian.s   beiueen   Eakcs   Michic;an  and   ]'>ie,
'•^''^  in  daily  dread  of  the  fierce  Iroquois,  who  evidently  had  already  vi>ited ■  'lat  region.  And  Tonty,  in  September,  iGSo,  was  among  the  Illinois  wiien ■^*   Jro(}uois  army  utterly  defeated  them,   and    ravaged  all   their   setilements
•'^Kg  the  Illinois  River,  even  to  the  Mississippi.  See  authorities  cited  in '"'irkman's  EaSaile.     Chaps,  xiv,  xv,  and  xvi.— Enw.  G.  Mason.
20  HARRISON  S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
every-day  intercourse,  had  penetrated  to  the  great  river,  to  search for  which,  was  the  principal  object  of  the  voyage,  and  upon  its banks  had  subdued  a  ])Owerful  nation  ;  which,  from  information  I received  from  a  credible  eye-witness  many  years  afterward,  were estimated  to  possess  four  thousand  warriors.  There  were  two other  routes  than  that  taken  by  jMarquette,  by  which  the  Iroquois might  have  reached  the  Illinois.  By  descending  the  Alleghany River,  which  flowed  tlirough  their  own  country,  and  then  by  the Ohio  to  the  Mississippi.  But  one  more  direct  and  easier  was  fur- nished by  the  ascent  of  the  Miami  of  the  Lake,  and  the  descent of  the  Wabash  to  the  mouth  of  Tippecanoe,  the  head  navigation of  which  is  not  very  distant  either  from  Lake  Michigan  or  the Illinois  River.  If  any  expedition  of  this  kind  had  taken  place,  it must  have  been  knov,-n  to  the  French  of  Canada,  and  that  route would  have  been  taken  by  Father  Marquette,  rather  than  the comparatively  difficult  and  circuitous  one  of  Lake  Michigan,  the Fox  and  Ouisconsin  Rivers.  The  above  account  of  the  con-juests of  the  Iroquois,  fixes  that  of  the  Tiwictewees,  a  tribe  of  the Miamis,  in  the  year  1685;  that  is.  thirteen  years  after  the  con- quest of  the  Illinois  tribes  of  the  same  nation.  This  story  would have  been  more  credible  if  the  periods  of  tliese  conquests  had been  reversed,  and  that  of  the  Tiwictewees,  assigned  to  ihe  earlier era,  as  it  is  well  known  that  that  tribe  of  the  Miamis  was  always the  most  easterly  of  their  nation,  and  hence  they  must  Ivdve  been /nf  out  of  f/ic  Ti'ay  before  their  brothers  of  the  Illinois  could  be struck."  In  the  al:>ove  quotation,  the  conquest  of  the  Shawanoes is  said  to  have  happened  simultaneously  with  that  of  the  Tiwicte- wees. But  there  is  nothing  said  of  their  location  at  that  ])eriod. From  the  construction  of  the  sentence  in  the  narrative,  it  seems to  be  intended  to  convey  the  idea  that  it  was  upon  ih:-  same expedition  that  it  was  effected,  and  that  the  tribes  were  contigu- ous or  rather  upon  the  same  line  of  operation,  (one  of  them being  first  conquered,  and  then  the  other.)  And  such  vras  pre- cisely the  fact  as  to  the  position  of  these  tribes  at  anotlier  period — but  that  period  was  one  hundred  years  after  that  which  is  given by  the  supposed  French  writer.  The  other  authority  to  which  1 referred,  as  sustaining  the  Iroquois  pretensions,  is  the  admission made  by  the  Cherokees,  who  attended  the  treaty  of  Stanwix,  in 1766.     These  chiefs  are  represented  to  have  laid  some  skins  at
*  'Ihc  Iroquois  did  not  find  it  necessary  to  put  the  Miamis  out  of  the  ^\'ay before  they  attacked  the  Illinois,  because  with  masterly  diplomacy  tliey  per- suaded the  Miamis  to  j(nn  in  their  invasion  of  the  territory  of  the  Illinois. See  Parkman's  LaSalle,  chap,  xvi,  paye  205.  —  Ya)\\\  G.  Mason.
ABORIGINES    OF    THE   OHIO    VALLEY.  21
the  feet  of  the  head  men  of  the  Iroquois,  saying,  "that  they  were theirs,  as  they  had  killed  the  animals  from  which  they  were  taken, on  this  side  of  the  big  river.''  This  "big  river,"  the  author  who records  the  anecdote,  (Judge  Haywood,  in  his  History  of  Ten- nessee,) asserts  to  be  the  Tennessee,  "as  that  was  the  way  in which  the  Cherokees  were  accustomed  to  designate  it."  Now,  if all  the  statements  here  made  be  true,  and  I  doubt  not  that  they are,  so  far  from  admitting  the  inference  to  be  correct,  I  think  the very  reverse  would  be  the  construction  put  upon  what  they  said, by  every  person  who  is  acquainted  with  the  method  of  speaking peculiar  to  the  Indians.  It  was  a  remarkable  peculiarity  of  these people,  before  their  manners  and  mode  of  expression  were  some- what modified  by  their  intercourse  with  the  whites,  that  they  were always  averse  to  refer  to  either  men  or  things  by  their  appropriate names,  even  if  they  were  acquainted  with  them.  They  preferred to  describe  a  man,  or  a  river,  or  a  town,  by  some  quality  or  remark- able feature,  rather  than  designate  the  object  by  a  name.  When alluding  to  one  of  their  own  nation,  in  his  presence,  they  would say,  instead  of  his  name,  "that  man  with  a  pipe  in  his  mouth," — "that  man  v/ith  a  lame  leg,"  etc.,  etc.  If  a  hunter,  encamped upon  a  branch  of  the  Scioto,  had  killed  a  deer  upon  that  river, he  would  say,  upon  being  asked,  that  he  had  killed  it  upon  the "big  river."  And  the  same  phrase  would  be  used  if  the  question was  asked  on  the  Scioto,  near  to  its  mouth,  if  the  deer  had  been killed  on  the  banks  of  the  Ohio.  When,  therefore,  a  big  river was  referred  to,  for  the  purpose  of  marking  the  spot  where  any particular  event  occurred,  it  must  be  always  understood  to  mean the  largest  river  near  to  them.  Having  crossed  the  Ohio  on  their route  to  Fort  Stanwix,  they  never  could  have  intended  to  refer  to the  Tennessee  as  the  "big  river,"  when  they  must  have  well known  that  it  was  a  tributary  to  the  former.
I  w^ill  now  proceed,  gentlemen,  to  give  you  a  condensed account  of  the  information  I  received,  in  the  course  of  a  long intercourse  v>  ith  the  northwestern  tribes,  commencing  at  the treaty  of  Greenville,  in  1795,  and  which  constitutes  one  of  the ;.Tounds  upon  which  I  restrict  the  conquest  of  the  Irocpiois  in  the valley  of  the  Ohio,  to  a  line,  at  any  rate,  east  of  the  Scioto.  No better  opportunity  could  be  afforded  than  that  which  I  possessed, to  obtain  correct  information  in- relation  to  the  ancient  history, and  the  territorial  claims  of  the  several  tribes  and  nations,  because >t  was  derived  from  discussions  in  councils,  where  conflicting  par- tics  were  represented,  and  encouragement  given  to  elicit  a  full <-'Xposure  of  all  the  facts  and  circumstances  which  could  have  any sntluence  in  support  of  their  respective  pretensions.     I   will  add,
22  HARRISONS    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.  "y  ^
too.  that  there  was  no  motive  that  could  influence  an  agent  of  . the  Government  to  countenance   the  unjust  pretensions  of  anv tribe,  and  reject  those  which  were  better  founded.     All  of  them  '
had  placed  themselves  under  the  exclusive  protection  of  tlie United  States,  and  all  had  bound  themselves  to  make  no  sale  of any  part  of  their  lands  to  any  other  civilized  power.  ^
Rejecting,  then,  the  accounts  which  have  been  given  by  the  |
pens  of  a  few  individuals,  (more  intent  upon  exalting  the  fame  of a  particular  nation,  than  upon  giving  a  true  history,)  who  assert  •  '
the  early  conquest  of  the  half-civilized  nation  which  once  inhab- ited Ohio,  by  the  united   efforts  of  the  Leni   Lenapes,  or  Dela-        "     t wares,  and  Mingwe  or  Iroquois,  on  their  ])assage  from  the  north-  .•:
west  part  of  our  continent,  to  the  shores  of  the  Atlantic;  I  com-  "
mence  my  narrative  at  the  time  when  the  position  of  all  the  great  ■■
tribes  or  nations  which  have  ever  advanced  any  claim  to  the  fair  y
and  fertile  country  between  the  lakes,  the  Ohio,  and  Mississippi,  V
was  as  follows: — 'fhe  chronology  I  can  not  precisely  fix,  but  it  was  :'
at  a  period,  centuries  after  the  possession  of  the  country  by  the  v
authors  of  the  ancient  works  which  we  have  mentioned,  or  those who  conquered  them,  as  the  then  possessors  had  not  the  least knowledge  or  tradition  relative  to  the  one  or  the  other.     There  are  ^.
circumstances,  however,  which  induce  me  to  fix  the  time  some- what about  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century.  At  that  time, tlien.  the  Mingwe,  or  far-famed  Iroquois,  remained  in  their  origi- nal seats,  compressed  between  the  inhospitable  region  of  Labrador and  tlie  great  Lenape  (or,  as  we  call  them,  Delaware)  nation, which  confined  them  on  the  south,  Westwardly,  they  had  made .«iome  conquest,  and  with  the  sagacity,  which  has  caused  them  to be  compared  to  the  conquerors  of  the  world;  in  the  commence- ni'.-nt  of  their  progress,  they  ado|)ted  the  conquered  tribes  into their  confederacy.  I  am  ignorant  of  the  northern  boundary  of the  J.enapes  at  this  period.  It  is  probable  that  it  had  been  con- siderably pressed  in  by  the  Iroquois.  They  still,  however,  pos- scvsed  the  greater  part  of  New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  Pennsyl- vania.
Ascending  the  lakes  and  leaving  the  Iroquois  territory,  the Hy.mdots  or  Hurons,  ]jresented  themselves.  A  large  ])ortion  of thK  nation  were,  at  that  time,  north  of  Lake  Erie;  but  the  greater  }
part  occu{)ied  the  country  from-the  Miami  Bay  eastwardly,  along what  is  now  denominated  the  Western  Reserve,  and  extending across  the  country  southwardly,  to  the  Ohio.  Westward  of  this ternrory  commenced  that  of  the  Miami  Nation,  or  rather  confed- t^r.'irv,  j)ossessing  a  larger  number  of  warriors,  at  that  period,  than could   })e  furnished   by  any  of  the   aboriginal   nations   of  Norlh
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  2,3
America,  before  or  since..  "Lheir  territory  embraced  all  of  Ohio, west  of  the  Scioto, — all  of  Indiana,  and  that  part  of  Illinois,  south of  the  Fox  River  and  Wisconsin,  on  which  frontier  they  were intermingled  with  the  Kickapoos  and  some  other  small  tribes. Of  this  immense  territory,  the  most  beautiful  portion  was  unoccu- pied. Numerous  villages  were  to  be  found  on  the  Scioto  and  the head  waters  of  the  two  Miamis,  of  the  Ohio.  On  the  Miami  of the  Lake,  and  its  southern  tributaries,  and  throughout  the  whole course  of  the  Wabash,  at  least  as  low  as  Chi])pecoke,  (the  town of  Brush  Wood,j  now  Vincennes.  But  the  beautiful  Ohio  rolled its  "amber  tide"  until  it  paid  its  tribute  to  the  Father  of  \\'aters, through  an  unbroken  solitude.  At  that  time,  before,  and  for  a century  after,  its  banks  were  without  a  town  or  village,  or  even  a single  cottage,  the  curling  smoke  of  whose  chimney  would  give the  promise  of  comfort  and  refreshment  to  a  weary  traveler.
If  such  an  appearance  should  have  presented  itself  to  one  who was  aware  of  his  situation,  it  would  have  been  the  signal  of  flight, well  knowing  that  -it  must  proceed  from  some  sequestered  dell, and  that  the  fire  from  which  it  proceeded  had  been  lighted  by  a party  of  warriors,  who,  having  interposed  the  river  between  them- -selves  and  those  who  might  have  commenced  a  pursuit  on  the line  of  their  retreat,  might  consider  themselves  safe  in  indulging in  the  luxury  of  a  cooked  meal,  and  a  dry  couch,  after  a  laborious and  protracted  march,  in  wliich  privations  of  every  description, consistent  with  their  success  and  safety,  were  enjoined  l)y  the rigid  rules  of  their  discipline.  No  traveler,  accpiainted  with  the Indian  character,  would  seek  the  hospitalities  of  such  a  fire-side. AMiatever  might  have  been  the  result  of  their  expedition,  the interview  would  prove  fatal  to  him.  If  it  had  been  successful, the  appetite  for  blood  would  be  inflamed,  rather  than  satisfied, and  if  otherwise,  the  scalp  of  an  unfortunate  stranger  might  be substituted  for  the  similar  trophy  which  their  bad  fortune  or  bad management  had  not  permitted  them  to  tear  from  the  head  of their  acknowledged  enemy.
We  left  the  Mingwe,  or  Iroc[Uois,  strengthened  by  the  incorpora- tion, into  their  confederacy,  of  some  concjucred  tribes,  but  not yet  able  to  burst  through  the  impediments  which  opposed  their progress  to  the  west  and  south.  Their  success,  however,  in  the latter  direction,  was  soon  equahto  their  utmost  hopes.  We  pos- sess none  of  the  details  of  the  war  waged  with  the  Lena])es,  but we  know  that  it  resulted  in  the  entire  submission  of  the  latter, and  that  to  prevent  any  further  interruption  from  them  in  their  ex- tensive schemes  of  conquest,  they  adopted  a  plan  to  humble  and <legrade  them,  as  novel  as  it  was  effectual.  1  o  those  who  are /
24  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL   DISCOURSE.
acquainted  with  the  general  character  of  the  American  Indiansv and  to  those  particularly  who  know  the  conduct  of  the  Delawares., when  under  the  command  of  the  renowned  Bocanghelas,  in  their wars  against  the  United  States,  and  that  of  the  gallant  Nicoming, who  commanded  a  band  of  forty  of  his  countrymen  in  our  service in  the  war  of  1S13,  it  will  seem  almost  impossible  that  the  fact whicli  I  am  about  to  relate,  can  be  supported  upon  good  author- ity. But  the  best  authority  can  be  adduced  in  support  of  it,  since it  is  acknowledged  by  all  the  parties  who  were  concerned  in  it. Singular  as  it  may  seem,  then,  it  is  nevertheless,  true,  that  the Lenapes,  upon  the  dictation  of  the  Iroquois,  agreed  to  lay  aside the  character  of  warriors,  and  to  assume  that  of  women.  This^ fact  is  undisputed,  but  nothing  can  be  more  different  than  the account  which  is  given  of  the  manner  in  which  it  was  brought about,  and  the  motives  for  adopting  it,  on  the  part  of  the  Lenapes. The  latter  assert  that  they  were  cajoled  into  it  by  the  artifices  of the  Iroquois,  who  descanted  largely  upon  the  honor  which  was  to- be  acquired  by  their  assuming  the  part  of  peace-makers  between- belligerent  tribes,  and  which  cotild  never  be  so  effectual  as  when done  in  the  character  of  the  sex  which  never  make  war.  The- Lenapes  consented,  and  agreed  that  their  chiefs  and  warriors- from  thenceforth  should  be  considered  as  women.  The  version of  this  transaction,  as  given  by  the  Iroquois,  is,  that  they  de- manded, and  the  Lenapes  were  made  to  yield  to  this  humiliating concession,  as  the  only  means  of  averting  impending  destruction. 'I'he  Rev.  Mr.  Heckwelder,  in  a  communication  to  the  Historical Society  of  Pennsylvania,  labored,  with  more  zeal  than  success,  to establish  the  Delaware  account.  But  even  if  he  had  succeeded in  making  his  readers  believe  that  the  Delawares,  when  they  sub- mitted to  the  degradation  proposed  to  them  by  their  enemies, were  influenced,  not  by  fear,  but  by  the  benevolent  desire  to  put a  sioj)  to  the  calamities  of  war,  he  has  established  for  them  the rci)utation  of  being  the  most  egregious  dupes  and  fools  that  the v\orld  has  rver  seen.  This  is  not  often  the  case  with  Indian sachems.  They  are  rarely  cowards,  but  still  more  rarely  are  they cletjcic-nt  in  sagacity  and  discernment  to  detect  any  attempt  ta impose  upon  them.  I  sincerely  wish  I  could  unite  with  the Worthy  (ierman,  in  removing  this  stigma  upon  the  Delawares. A  long  and  intimate  knowledge- of  them,  in  peace  and  war,  as enemies  and  friends,  has  left  upon  my  mind  the  most  fovorable impressions  of  their  character  for  bravery,  generosity,  and  fidelity to  their  engagements.
The   Iroquois  being  thus  freed  from  any  apprehension  of  an attack,  irom  their  ancient  enemies,  upon   their  southern  border^
AT30RIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  2$
prepared  to  force  the  barrier  which  had  so  long  opposed  their westward  progress.  This  was  not  a  barrier  of  mountains— not  a rampart  of  eartli  or  stone,  but  one  similar  to  that  which  protected for  ages,  the  open  streets  and  avenues  of  Sparta— a  rampart  of warriors'  bosoms,  equal  in  bravery,  and  in  the  love  of  their  coun- try, to  any  which  that  far-famed  State,  or  either  of  her  distin- guished rivals,  ever  sent  to  the  field.  From  the  position  which  I have  ascribed  to  the  Hurons,  or  Wyandots,  it  will  be  perceived that  I  allude  to  that  celebrated  tribe.  There  is  much  difficulty in  fixing  the  chronology  of  many  of  the  most  important  events  in the  history  of  the  Indians,  at  the  period  to  which  I  now  refer. There  are  no  means  by  which  we  can  ascertain  when  the  war between  the  Iroquois  and  the  Hurons  commenced,  or  how  long it  lasted.  W'liether  it  was  carried  on  before  tliey  were  both  fur- nished with  European  arms,  or  after  they  had  become  acquainted with  the  use  of  them,  and  both  had  been  supplied  by  the  Euro- pean nation,  to  which  they  severally  adhered,  cannot  be  correctly ascertained.  There  are  circumstances,  however,  which  induce me  to  believe  that  they  had  long  fought  with  weapons  of  their own  manufacture;  but  that  the  great  battle  which  terminated  the contest,  was  made  more  bloody  and  disastrous  from  the  use  of firearms.  If  that  was  the  case,  it  must  have  been  after  the  year 1 701,  which  was  the  epoch  of  the  alliance  between  the  British and  the  Iroquois.  Previously  to  that  event,  the  French  had  been extremely  cautious  in  placing  the  destructive  arms  of  the  Euro- Ijean.s,  in  the  hands  of  the  Indians.  But,  as  by  means  of  the British,  the  Iroquois  had,  in  a  few  years,  become  completely armed,  the  French  authorities  were  obliged  to  change  their  policy in  this  respect,  and  it  was  through  them  that  the  Hurons  were enabled  to  meet  the  Iroquois  upon  terms  equal  as  to  arms^ although  the  disparity  of  numbers  was  greatly  in  favor  of  the latter.  The  Wyandots  assert  that  the  last  great  battle  was  fought in  canoes  upon  Lake  Erie,  and  that  all,  or  nearly  all,  the  warriors of- both  nations  perished.  Although  the  actual  loss  of  the  two nations,  in  this  battle,  is  said  to  have  been  equal,  the  conse- quences were  flxr  from  being  so.  The  smaller  and  weaker  party, were  unable  again  to  bring  into  the  field  a  force,  which  in  point of  numbers,  could  bear  any  reasonable  proportion  to  their  ene- mies. After  standing  at  bay  for  same  time,  they  yielded  to  the storm  which  they  had  not  the  physical  force  to  resist,  and  retired to  the  shores  of  Lake  Michigan.  The  history  of  this  remarkable tribe  is  not  ended  with  this  change  of  situation.  They  returned after  some  years,  to  their  original  seats,  and  in  all  the  subsequent v»ars  of  this  country,  continued  to  manifest  their  superiority  over
:26  HARRISON'S   HISTORICAL,    DISCOURSE.  "    .
the  other  tribes,  who,  upon  every  occasion,  yielded  to  them  the pahn  of  bravery.
The  display  of  martial  courage  and  high  patriotic  feeling,  on the  part  of  the  youth  of  a  nation,  has  frequently  been  the  result of  fortuitous  causes,  which,  ceasing  to  operate,  their  elTect  is  soon dissipated,  and  the  national  character  again  sinks  to  its  former level.  Such  was  the  case  with  Thebes.  By  the  example  and precepts  of  Epaminondas  and  Pelopidas,  the  bosoms  of  the Theban  youth  were  lighted  with  unwonted  fires,  which  rendered them  invincible.  But  with  the  death  of  these  great  men,  the -spirit  of  the  nation  again  sank,  and  the  presence  of  the  sacfcd band  was  no  longer  the  signal  of  victory.  With  Sparta  it  was -otherwise.  That  unbending  spirit,  that  proud  superiority,  which the  Spartan  youth  displayed  in  every  situation,  and  which  induced him  to  seek  a  death  in  the  service  of  his  country,  as  the  most -enviable  distinction,  was  the  result  of  impressions  fixed  upon  the mind  in  the  earHest  periods  of  life,  and  continued  through  the ^stages  of  minority.  Other  lessons  might  occasionally  be  taught, but  this  being  always  present  to  the  mind  of  the  youth,  the love  of  country,  and  the  obligation  to  die  whenever  her  service required  the  sacrifice,  suppressed  or  weakened  every  other  pas- sion of  the  soul,  and  it  reigned  triumphant.  This  accounts  for the  uniform  character  of  the  Spartan  warriors,  through  a  long lapse  of  ages.  And  this,  too,  was  the  source  of  the  bravery Avhich  I  have  assigned  to  the  Wyandots,  in  the  commencement  of the  eighteenth  century,  and  which  I  knew  them  to  possess  at  its olose.  To  die  for  the  interest  or  honor  of  his  tribe,  and  to  con- sider submission  to  an  enemy  the  lowest  degradation,  were  daily lessons  impressed  upon  the  dawning  reason  of  the  child,  and ■continued  through  all  the  stages  of  youth.  Facts,  in  support  of what  is  here  asserted,  will  be  given  in  a  subsec[uent  part  of  the narrative.
The  departure  of  the  Wyandots  gave  the  long-wished-for  op- portunity to  the  Iroquois  to  advance  into  Ohio.  And  that  they did  advance  as  far  as  the  Sandusky,  either  at  that  period  or  some time  after,  is  admitted.  But  there  is  no  evidence  whatever,  to show  that  they  made  a  conquest  of  the  Miamis,  other  than  their own  assertions,  and  that  of  the  British  agents,  residing  among them,  who  obtained  their  infwmation  from  the  Indians  them- •selves.  Whilst  the  want  of  such  acknowledgments  on  the  part of  the  Miamis,  a  number  of  facts,  susceptible  of  proof,  and  with all  the  inconsistencies  and,  indeed,  ])a]pable  absurdities,  with which  the  Irorjuois  accounts  abound,  form  such  a  mass  of  testi- inony,  positive,  negative,  and  circumstantial,  as  should,   1   think,
ABORIGINES    OF    THE   OHIO   VALLEY.
"/
leave  no  reasonable  doubt  that  the  pretensions  of  the  latter,  to the  conquest  of  the  country  from  the  Scioto  to  the  Mississippi, are  entirely  groundless.  In  the  accounts  which  the  ^fiamis  gave of  themselves,  there  was  never  any  reference  to  a  war  with  the Iroquois,  whilst  they  declared  that  they  had  been  fighting  with the  southern  Indians,  (Cherokees  and  Chickasaws,)  for  so  many ages,  that  they  had  no  account  of  any  period  when  there  was peace  with  them.  At  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  and  at  all  the  sub- sequent treaties,  made  for  the  extinguishment  of  their  title  to  the extensive  tract  which  I  have  assigned  to  them  above,  no  sugges- tion Avas  made  of  any  claim  of  the  Iroquois  to  any  part;  and there  were,  upon  most  of  those  occasions,  those  present,  who "svould  have  eagerly  embraced  the  opportunity  to  disparage  the character  of  the  Miamis,  by  exhibiting  these  as  a  conquered  and degraded  people.  The  Iroquois  were  not  represented  at  tlie treaty  of  Greenville,  but  previously  to  its  being  held,  they  took care  to  inform  General  Wayne,  that  the  Delawares  were  their subjects — that  they  had  conc^uered  them  and  put  petticoats  upon them.  But  neither  claimed  to  have  conquered  the  Isliamis,  nor to  have  any  title  to  any  part  of  the  country  in  the  occupancy  of the  latter.-'
*  In  the  Discourse  of  DeWitt  Clinton  before  the  New  York  Historical  Soci- ety, where  the  extensive  conquests  of  the  Five  Nations  are  painted  in  strong colors,  after  .statin;^  that  the  date  of  these  conquests  is  uncertain,  he  saj^s, "The  Illinois  lleJ  to  the  westward,  after  being  attacked  by  the  confederates, and  did  not  return  until  a  general  peace;  and  were  permitted,  in  1760,  by, the  confederates,  to  settle  in  the  country  between  the  Wabash  and  tlie  Scioto Rivers.*  Pownall's  "Topographical  Description"  is  given  as  the  authority for  this  statement;  and,  on  turning  to  Pownail,t  we  find  he  asserts  it  on  the authority  of  "Captain  Gordon's  Journal,"  who,  instead  of  1760,  uses  the  ex- pression "sixteen  years  ago.  "  Whether  Captain  Gordon's  Journal  was  writ- ten in  1774,  we  do  not  know.  We  rather  suppose,  that  Governor  Clinton inadvertently  took  the  statement  to  be  that  of  I'ownall  himself,  whose  "  Topo- J^raphical  Description"  was  written  in  1775.  But  it  is  incredible,  that  the Five  Nations  claimed  a  right  to  dispose  of  the  territory  between  the  Wabash and  Scioto  as  late  a.^  the  niiddle  of  the  last  century,  and  that  the  tribes  of  the great  western  league  were  settled  there,  at  so  recent  a  period,  by  their  per- 'Tiis-iion.  As  the  Indians  of  the  Five  Nations  were  careful  to  inform  General Wayne  of  their  ancient  conquest  of  the  Delawares,  and  as  any  claim  adverse to  the  Miamis  was  likely  to  be  viewed  with  favor  by  the  United  States  at  the treaty  of  Greenville,  great  importance  is  justly  attached  by  General  Harrison lo  the  circumstance,  that  no  such  claim*  was  then  alluded  to.  Though  the I'ive  Nation.-,  were  not  a  party  to  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  there  were  those present  who  would  gladly  have  revived  such  a  tradition,  to  the  disadvantage <->f  th'r  .Mianii^-,  had  any  sucli  tradition  then  existed.  We  regard  this  consid- <--''ation  as  of  a  decisive  character.  —  E.  Evkkkit,  in  X.-A.  J\tv.,  July,  1840.
*  OcWiit  Clinton's  H'ntorudl  Discourse,  p.  28.  t  Il>id.,  p.  42.
28  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.  •'
The  French  had  estabhshments  in  the  lUinois  country  in  the latter  part  of  the  seventeenth  century,  and,  upon  the  autliority  of the  learned  and  Rev.  Dr.  Brute,  present  bishop  of  Vincennes,  Mr. Butler,  in  his  recent  History  of  Kentucky,'''  asserts  that  Vincennes. was  a  missionary  post,  so  early  as  the  year  1700.  At  that  period the  Miami  Nation  is  represented  by  all  French  accounts  as  very numerous,  and  in  the  undisputed  possession  of  all  the  country  I have  claimed  for  them.  I  have  myself  seen  a  ver}'  old  and respectable  citizen  of  St.  Louis,  who  recollected  when  five  tribes of  the  nation,  who  went  under  the  appellation  of  Illinois  tiibes, could  bring  into  the  field  four  thousand  warriors;  and  yet  they did  not  compose  the  strength  of  the  nation,  which  was  to  be  found strung  along  the  banks  of  the  Wabash  and  its  tributary  streams, and  no  doubt  far  into  Ohio.  In  the  year  1734,  M.  de  Vincennes, a  captain  in  the  French  army,  found  them  in  possession  of  the whole  of  the  AVabash,  and  their  principal  town  occupying  thr  site of  Fort  Wayne,  which  Avas  actually  the  key  of  the  country  belov.  . This  ofiiccr  was  the  first  Frenchman  who  followed  the  route  of the  Miami  of  the  Lake,  and  the  Wabasii,  in  passing  from  Canada to  their  western  settlements;  and,  in  doing  so  at  this  time,  throws some  light  upon  the  chronology  of  some  of  the  events  to  which  I have  referred.  Long  before  this  period,  the  French  must  have known  of  the  shorter  and  easier  route,  and  no  reason  can  be assigned  for  their  never  having  used  it,  but  from  its  being  the seat  of  war,  on  some  ])ortion  of  it,  which  rendered  it  unsafe. This  war  I  sup]jose  to  be  that  between  the  Wyandots  and  Iro- ([uois;  and,  although  I  would  fix  its  termination  earlier  by  some years  than  the  expedition  of  Vincennes,  yet,  being  an  experi- ment, it  is  probable  that  it  required  some  time  to  ascertain  its entire  safety;  nor  is  it  at  all  mipossible,  that  the  Tiwictewees (always  the  most  eastern  of  the  Miami  tribes)  were  not  upon  the most  friendly  terms  with  the  Iroquois.  Indeed,  the  probability is,  that  there  was  war  between  them,  but  not  of  a  decisive  charac- ter, and  if  any  concpiests  were  made,  or  any  part  of  the  territory of  the  Miamis  conquered,  it  must  have  been  of  trifling  extent;  if victories  had  been  gained,  their  effects  were  evanescent,  and  of no  use  to  the  conquerors.  Vincennes,  in  1734,  found  them •(the  Miamis)  in  the  possession  of  the  entire  Wabash;  and,  in 1751,  the  Tiwictewees  were  visiter! at  their  towns,  on  the  Scioto, one  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from  the  mouth,  by  Mr.  Gist,  of Virginia,  whose  Journal  has  been  lately  published  by  Mr.  Sparks,
*  A  History  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Kentucky.      By  Mann  Cutler,  A.M. Louisville,  Ky.,  1834.
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  29
amongst  the  Washington  papers.  Mr.  Gist  remarks,  that  they Avere  there  "'in  amity  with  the  Six  Nations,"'  and  adds,,  that  they *'appeared  to  him  to  be  a  very  superior  people"  to  their  supposed conquerors.  Amongst  tlie  inconsistencies  to  be  found  in  the declaration  of  those  who  support  the  pretension  of  the  Iroquois on  this  side  of  the  Ohio,  I  shall  at  this  time  mention  but  one. After  broadly  asserting  the  claim  of  conquest  to  the  Mississip])i, it  seems,  that,  in  1781,  Colonel  Croghan,  who  is  represented  to have  been  an  agent  with  the  Iroquois  for  the  thirty  years  preced- ing, limited  their  right  "on  the  southeast  side  of  the  Ohio,  to  the Cherokee  (Tennessee)  River,  and  to  the  Big  Miami,  a  stony  river on  the  northwest  side."  Even  this  reduced  claim  to  the  territor}- -within  one  State,  will  not  be  admitted;  as  it  has  been  shown, that  the  Tiwictewees  were  in  full  possession  of  the  Scioto,  upward of  one  hundred  miles  above  the  Miami,  where  they  were  \'isited by  Mr.  (iist,  and  presented  nothing  to  indicate  a  conquered people.  I  have  no  doubt  that  their  pretensions  to  extensive conquests  on  the  southeast  side  of  the  Ohio,  are  also  untenable. Dr.  Franklin  asserts,  that  at  a  treaty  held  in  1744,  the  chiefs  of the  Six  Nations,  upon  being  questioned  as  to  their  title,  made this  reply,  "that  all  the  world  knew  that  they  had  conquered  the nations  living  on  the  Suscjuehanna,  the  Cohongoranto,  (now Potomac,)  and  back  of  the  Virginia  mountains."  The  Doctor further  asserts,  upon  the  authority  of  Mitchell,  the  author  of  a work  which  had  been  jniblished  at  the  solicitation  of  the  British board  of  trade  and  plantations,  "that  the. Six  Nations  had  extend- ed their  territories  ever  since  the  year  1672,  when  they  subdued and  were  incorporated  with  the  vShawanoes,  tJic  iiatii'e propj-ictcvs of  those  countries."'  Besides  which  "they  claim  a  right  of  con- <]uest  over  the  Illinois  and  all  the  Mississipi)i,  as  far  as  they extend.'"  1  have  already  disposed  of  the  Illinois  portion  of  these pretended  concjuests.  and  I  will  now  show  that  the  whole  account of  the  subjugation  of  the  Shawanoes  by  the  Iroquois,  is  still  more clearly  destitute  of  foundation.  No  fact,  in  relation  to  the  Indian tribes,  who  have  resided  on  our  northwest  frontiers  for  a  century past,  is  better  known,  than  that  the  Shawanees  came  from  Florida and  Georgia  about  the  middle' of  the  eighteenth  century.  They passed  through  Kentucky  /along  the  Cumberland  River)  on  their way  to  the  Ohio.  But  that  their  passage  was  rather  a  rapid  one, is  proved  from  these  circuinstances.  Black  Hoof,  their  late  prin- cipal chief,  (with  whom  I  had  l)een  acquainted  since  the  treaty of  Greenville,)  was  born  in  Florida,  before  the  removal  of  his tribe.  1-fe  died  at  Wapocconata,  in  this  State,  only  three  or  four years  ago.      As  T  do  not  know  his  age,  at  the  time  of  his  leaving
"  ■     ■  '  •  ''       '  I
30                   liAKRISON'S    HISTORICAL   DISCOURSE.  ^
Florida,  nor  at  bis  death,  I  am  not  able  to  fix  with  precision  tlie  • date  of  the  emigration.     But  it  is  well  known  that  they  were  at
the  town  which  still  bears  their  names  on  the  Ohio,  a  few  miles  ^
below  the  mouth  of  the  Wabash,  sometime  before  the  commence-  •  i
ment  of  the   revoluntary   war;  that   they  remained   there   some  t
years  before  they  removed  to  the  Scioto,  when  they  were  found  \
by  Ciovernor  Dunmore  in  the  year   1774.      l^iat   their  removal  r
from  Plorida,  was  a  matter  of  necessity,  and  their  progress  from  f
thence,  a  tlight,  rather  than  a  deliberate  march,  is  evident  from  1
their  appearance,  when  they  presented  themselves  upon  the  Ohio,  '.
and  claimed  the  protection  of  the  jMiamis.     They  are  represented  !>
by  the  chiefs  of  the  latter,  as  well  as  those  of  the  Delawares,  as  ^^■:
supplicants  for  protection,  not  against  the  Iroquois,  but  against  J
the   Creeks   and  vSeminoles,  or  some  other  southern    tribe,  who  ?'
had  driven  them  fi'om   Florida,  and  they  are  said  to  have  been  I
literally  s<7/^s  provat  ct  sans  culottes.     As  during  this  rapid  flight,  v..-
was  the  first  and  only  time  that  the  Shawanees  had  ever  been  in  |-
Kentucky,  tlie  .^tory  of  tlieir  having  been  conquered,   and  their  ■     f :
right  to  the  country  obtained  by  tlie  Six  Nations,  in  consequence  \ . of  that  conc^uest,  nearly  a  century  before,  must  be  considered  an
entire  fabrication.     This  history  of  the  Shawanees  was  brought  |
forward  at  a  council  held  at  Vincennes,   in   the  year   18 10,   to  i
resist  the  pretensions  advanced  by  the  far-famed  Tecumthey  tu  |
an  interference  with  the  Miamis  in  the  disposal  of  their  lands.  f
However  galling  to  this  chief,  the  reference  to  these  ficts  might  if
have  been,  he  vvms  unable  to  deny  them,  as  will  be  seen  by  an  *• examination   of  the    proceedings  of   this   council,    preserved    in
McAffee's  history  of  the  western  war.      These  facts  prove  most  '   ^
clearly,   that   the   Six   Nations   never  did  acquire  a   title   to   the  \
country  between   the  Kentucky  River  and  the  Tennessee,  by  the  |
subjugation  of  the  Shawanees,  unless  it  was  when   that  tribe  was  |,
passing  through  it  nearly  a  century  subsequent  to  the  period   in  I
which  it  is  said  to  have  taken  place.     If  it  should  be  asserted  i
that  the  Shawanees  might  have  occupied  the  country  in  question  ^'
before  the  year  1674,  and  have  been  then  driven  off  by  the  Iro-  .|
quois,   and  sought  refuge   in    Florida,   from   whence   they   again  |
returned  after  a  lapse  of  seventy  or  eighty  years,  the  answer  is,  %
that  they  give  no  such  account  of  themselves,  nor  are  there  any  ' traces  in  the  country  itself,  to  show  that  it  had  been  occujjicd either  by  the  Shawanees  or  any  other  tribe,  for  some  ages  at  least before  the  period  fixed  for  its  conquest  by  the  Iroquois.     All  the
early  voyagers  on  the  Ohio,  and  all  the  first  emigrants  to  Ken-      ^  \
tucky,   represent   the  country   as  being  totally  destitute   of  any  |
recent   vestigages  of  settlement.      Mr.   Butler,  in   his  History  of  I-
I  ABORIGINES    OF   THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  3C
[  Kentucky,  remarks  in  the  text,  that  "no  Indian   towns,  within
I  recent  times,  were  known  to  exist  within  this  territory,  either  in
Kentucky  or  the  lower  Tennessee;"  but  in  a  note  he  says,  "there are  vestiges  of  Indian  towns  near  Harrodsburg,  on  Salt  River, and  at  other  points,  but  they  are  of  no  recent  date."  The  same author,  and  all  others  assert,  "that  this  interjacent  country, between  the  Indians  of  the  south,  and  those  northwest  of  the Ohio,  was  kept  a  common  hunting  ground  or  field  of  battle  as the  resentments  or  inclinations  of  the  adjoining  tribes  prompted to  the  one  or  the  other."  The  total  absence  of  all  vestiges  of  set- tlement, of  a  date  as  late  as  the  period  of  the  alleged  conquest, is  conclusive  testimony  against  it,  the  process  by  which  nature restores  the  forest  to  its  original  state,  after  being  once  cleared,, is  extremely  slow.  In  our  rich  lands,  it  is,  indeed,  soon  covered again  with  timber,  but  the  character  of  growth  is  entirely  different, and  continues  so,  through  many  generations  of  men.  In  several .  places  on  the  Ohio,  particularly  upon  the  farm  which  I  occupy,
I  clearings  were  made  in  the  tirst  settlement,  abandoned,  and  sufter-
I  ing  to  grow  up.     Some  of  them,  now  to  be  seen,  of  nearly  hfty
j  years'  growth,  have  made  so  little  progress  towards  attaining  the
I  appearance  of  the  immediately  contiguous  forest,  as  to  induce
5  any  man  of  reflection,  to  determine,  that  at  least  ten  times  nfty
^  years  would  be  necessary  before  its  complete  assimilation  could
be  effected.     The  sites  of  the  ancient  works  on  the  Ohio,  pre- sent precisely  the  same  appearance  as  the  circumjacent  forest,
■  You  find  on  them,  all  that  beautiful  variety  of  trees,  which  gives I  such  unrivaled  richness  to  our  forests.     This  is  particularly  the
■  case,  on  the  fifteen  acres  included  within  the  walls  of  the  work, at  the  mouth  of  the  Great  Miami,  and  the  relative  proportions  of
^  the  different   kinds   of  timber,   are  about  the   same.     The   first
I  growth  on  the  same  kind  of  land,  once  cleared,  and  then  aban-
t  doned  to  nature,  on  the  contrary,  is  more  homogeneous — often
[  stinted  to  one,  or  two,  or  at  most  three  kinds  of  timber.      If  the
I  ground  had  been  cultivated,  yellow  locust,  in  many  places,  will
\  spring  up  as  thick  as  garden  peas.     If  it  has  not  been  cultivated,
I  the  black  and  white  walnut  will  be  the  ]:)re vailing  growth.     The
rapidity  with  which  these  trees-  grow  for  a  time,  smothers  the attempt  of  other  kinds  to  vegetate  and  grow  in  their  shade,  llie more  thrifty  individuals  soon  overto[)  the  weaker  of  their  own kind,  which  sicken  and  die.  *  In  this  \vi\y,  there  are  soon  only  as many  left  as  the  earth  will  well  sujjport  to  maturity.  All  this »  time  the  squirrels  may  plant  the  seed  of  those  trees  which  serve them  for  food,  and  by  neglect  suffer  them  to  remain, — it  will  be »n  vain;  the  birds  may  drop  the  kernels,   the  external  pulp  of
32  HARRISONS    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
Avhich  have  contributed  to  their  nourishment,  and  divested  of vrhich  they  are  in  the  best  state  for  germinating,  still  it  will  be  of no  avail;  the  winds  of  heaven  may  waft  the  winged  seeds  of  the -sycamore,  cotton-wood  and  maple,  and  a  friendly  sliower  may bury  them  to  the  necessary  depth  in  the  loose  and  fertile  soil but  still  without  success.  The  roots  below  rob  them  of  moisture, iind  the  canopy  of  limbs  and  leaves  above  intercepts  the  rays  of the  sun,  and  the  dews  of  heaven:  the  young  giants  in  possession, like  another  kind  of  aristocracy,  absorb  the  whole  means  of  sub- sistence, and  leave  the  mass  to  perish  at  their  feet.  This  state of  things  will  not,  however,  always  continue.  If  the  process  of nature  is  slow  and  circuitous,  in  putting  down  usurpation  and -establishing  the  equality  Avhich  she  loves,  and  which  is  the  great characteristic  of  her  principles,  it  is  sure  and  effectual.  The  pre- ference of  the  soil  for  the  first  growth,  ceases  with  its  maturity. It  admits  of  no  succession,  upon  the  principles  of  legitimacy. The  long  undisputed  masters  of  the  forest  may  be  thinned  by lightning,  the  tempest,  or  by  diseases  peculiar  to  themselves;  and %vhenever  this  is  the  case,  one  of  the  oft-rejected  of  another family,  will  find  between  its  decaying  roots,  shelter  and  appropri- ate food;  and  springing  into  vigorous  growth,  will  soon  push  its green  foliage  to  the  skies,  through  the  decayed  and  withering limbs  of  its  blasted  and  dying  adversary — the  soil  itself,  yielding it  a  more  li])eral  support  than  any  scion  from  the  former  occu- I)ant.  It  will  easily  be  conceived  what  a  length  of  time  it  will require  for  a  denuded  tract  of  land,  by  a.  process  so  slow,  again to  clothe  itself  with  the  amazing  variety  of  foliage  which  is  the characteristic  of  the  forests  of  this  region.  Of  what  immense  age, then,  must  be  those  works,  so  often  referred  to,  covered,  as  has been  supposed  by  those  who  have  the  best  opportunity  of  exam- ining them,  with  the  second  growth  after  the  ancient  forest  state had  been  regaitiedl
But,  setting  aside  all  that  has  been  advanced  adverse  to  the claims  of  the  Six  Nations  to  be  the  extensive  conquerors  that they  have  so  long  been  considered,  there  are,  I  think,  insuperable arguments  to  be  found  against  it,  drawn  from  the  nature  of  man in  every  age,  and  from  the  state  in  which  they  were  at  that  period. They  have  been  compared  to  the  Romans, — but  in  what  did  the resemblance  consist?  I>ike  that  celebrated  people  they  might have  been  ambitious  of  extending  their  influence,  and,  like  them, constant  in  adhering  to  a  course  of  policy  adapted  to  secure  it. l>ut  there  tlie  j)arallel  must  end.  The  ingredient  in  the  composi- tion of  a  Roman  army,  to  which  all  their  conquests  are  justl\' aUributed,  they  did  not,  and  in  the  state  of  society  to  which  they
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALEEV.  33
were  advanced,  they  could  not  possess.  I  allude  to  that  bond by  which  an  army  of  man)-  thousands  are  brought  to  a  harmony and  unity  of  action,  as  if  they  were  possessed  of  but  one  spirit ^ind  one  mind.  Without  this,  no  distant  foreign  conquests  ever have  been  or  ever  can  be  made.  In  every  considerable  collec- tion of  men  in  arms  in  every  sfate  of  society,  the  elements  of  fac- tion, disunion,  and  final  dissolution  are  always  to  be  found.  If the  warriors  of  the  Iroquois  did  not  possess  this  spirit. in  a superior  degree,  they  greatly  differ  from  the  kindred  tribes  of  this countr}',  with  whom  I  have  been  acquainted.  To  have  conquered the  numerous  tribes  between  their  frontier  and  the  Mississippi, in  the  short  period  assigned,  an  army  of  many  thousands  would liave  been  requisite.  How  would  an  army  of  that  s\zt  be  sup- ported? The  game  of  the  forest  flies  before  the  march  of  an army,  and  the  state  in  which  these  Indians  were  at  that  time, being  without  beasts  of  burden  (and  ha\-ing  a  natural  horror  of e.xercising  that  quality  of  rhe  Roman  soldiers  themselves),  they Avould  be  unable  to  apply  the  superabundance  of  one  day  to  the wants  of  another.  The  power  to  move  men  in  masses,  to  be efficient,  is  one  of  the  highest  evidences  of  civilization.  The manner  of  making  war  amongst  the  North  American  Indians was  totally  difierent.  Hiey  endeavored  to  7C'e(7r  an'ay  their enemy,  by  surprising  and  butchering,  now  a  family,  less  frequently a  hunting  camp,  but  rarely  a  village.  If  the  hostile  parties  were in  juxtaposition,  as  the  Sacs  and  Foxes  and  the  Illinois  Miamis, a'few  years  would  determine  the  contest.  But  if  they  were  sepa- rated by  a  large  tract  of  unoccupied  territory,  as  the  northwest and  southern  Indians,  ages  might  pass  over  without  any  thing decisive  being  effected.
An  erroneous  opinion  has  prevailed  in  relation  to  the  character of  the  Indians  of  North  America.  IJy  many,  they  are  supposed to  be  stoics,  who  willingly  encounter  deprivations.  The  very reverse  is  the  fact;  if  they  belong  to  either  of  the  classes  of  phi- losophers which  prevailed  in  the  declining  ages  of  Greece  and Home,  it  is  to  that  of  Epicureans.  For  no  Indian  v,ill  forego an  enjoyhient  or  suffer  an  inconvenience,  if  he  can  avoid  it, but  under  jjeculiar  circumstances:  whtn,  for  instance,  he  is  stim- ulated by  some  strong  passion  -  but  even  the  gratification  of  this, he  is  ever  ready  to  postpone,  whenever  its  accomplishment  is attended  with  unlooked  for  danger,  or  unexpected  hardships. Hence  their  military  ojjerations  were  always  feeble — their  expedi- tions few  and  far  between,  and  much  the  greater  number  aban- doned without  an  efficient  stroke,  from  whim,  caprice,  or  an  aver- sion to  encounter  difiiculties. 3
34  HARRISONS    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
But  if  the  Indian  will  not,  like  Cato,  throw  from  him  "the pomps  and  pleasures,"  with  which  his  good  fortune  furnishes  him — when  evils  come  which  he  cannot  avoid,  when  '-the  stings  and arrows  of  outrageous  fortune'""  fall  thick  upon  him,  then  will  he call  up  all  the  spirit  of  the  man  into  his  bosom,  and  meet  hi< fate,  however  hard,  like  "the  best  Roman  of  them  all."  ^\[{h all  these  facts  before  me,  1  can  not  persuade  myself,  that  the  Six Nations  ever  extended  their  conquests  in  the  manner  that  has been  stated.  Their  attempts  to  conquer  the  numerous  and  war- like tribes  on  the  Mississippi,  would  have  been  rendered  abortive in  one  of  the  two  ways  mentioned  in  the  apothegm  of  Henry  the IV.,  in  relation  to  Spain: — "If  a  small  arm}'  should  be  sent,-  the}' would  be  defeated:  if  a  larger  one,  it  would  starve."  The  exten- sive conquests  made  by  the  sJiepJicrds  of  Scythia,  during  the  mid- dle ages,  both  in  Asia  and  Europe,  oppose  no  argument  against  the theory  I  have  attempted  to  establish.  There  is  no  point  of  com- parison in  the  situation  of  a  people  who,  to  an  abundance  and variety  of  the  domestic  animals  which  furnish  food  and  clotliing, add  the  possession  of  the  horse,  superior  to  any  of  them,  and equally  useful  in  peace  as  in  war,  and  those  who  have  none  of these  aids.
At  the  general  peace  of  Utrecht,  in  17 12,  the  French  were made  to  acknowledge  the  Iroquois  as  being  under  the  exclusive }^rotection  of  Great  Britain.  As  a  counterpoise  to  the  strength which  the  alliance  with  these  tribes  brought  to  their  rival,  the former  power  soon  employed  themselves  in  securing  the  friend- ship of  the  more  western  tribes.  But  although  these  great  rival powers  became  parties  in  the  war  which  was  kindled  in  Europe, upon  the  death  of  the  Emperor  diaries  the  VI.,  their  subjects  in the  interior  of  the  American  continent,  as  well  as  the  Indian tribes,  were  suffered  to  remain  in  quiet.  But  in  that  which  was commenced  in  1755,  both  parties  claimed  the  assistance  of  their respective  Indian  allies.  The  Six  Nations  gave  their  powerful aid  to  the  British,  whilst  the  northwestern  Indians  ranged  them- selves on  the  side  of  the  French,  and  contributed  largely,  by  their assistance,  to  the  defeat  of  General  Braddock,  and  to  procrasti- nate the  fall  of  I'ort  Du  Quesne,  and  other  western  posts.  The ])eace  of  Paris,  in  1763,  terminated  the  war  between  France  and l*ritain,  and  the  entire  cession.. of  all  the  French  dominions  in North  America,  to  the  latter  power,  seemed  to  promise  a  lasting peace  with  the  Indians.  Such,  however,  was  not  the  case.  One year  of  bloody  war,  after  the  British  had  gained  possession  of  all the  western  posts,  desolated  the  frontiers,  and  the  important  for- tress of  Michilliuiackinac  v»-as  taken,  and  Detroit,  Fort  Pitt,  and
ABORIGINES    OF    THE    OHIO    VAEEEV.  35
Niagara,  had  nearly  suftered  a  like  flxte.  In  these  enterprises, the  Indians  of  Ohio,  the  AXVandots,  Delawares,  and  Shawanees, acted  a  conspiciious  part.  A  treaty  of  peace  was  at  'ength ejected,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Six  Nations.
It  was  not,  however,  kept  with  good  faith  by  the  Indians,  who continued  to  coinmit  occasional  depredations  upon  the  frontiers of  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia,  throughout  the  ten  following  years.
In  the  year  1774,  a  grand  expedition  under  the  command  of the  titled  Co\crnor  of  Virginia  (Lord  Dunmore)  against  the  Indi- ans of  Ohio,  resulted  in  the  celebrated  battle  of  Kenhawa  by  the left  wing  of  the  army,  whilst  that  under  the  immediate  orders  of the  Governor  penetrated  to  within  a  short  distance  of  the  Shawa- nees towns  on  the  Scioto,  where  a  precipitate  treaty  was  con- cluded, and  the  Governor  hastened  to  his  capital,  to  provide against  a  storm  of  a  different  character;  of  the  approach  of  which he  had  seen  evidences  not  to  be  misapprehended.
In  the  year  1775,  Great  Britain  (determined  to  compel  her colonies  to  submit  to  her  arbitrary  mandates,  with  that  reckless- ness of  means  for  which  she  has  ever  been  remarkable,  whenever a  purpose  of  aggrandizement,  or  vengeance,  was  to  be  secur(;d,) by  the  influence  of  the  traders,  by  large  donations,  and  larger promises,  engaged  all  the  northwestern  Indians  in  her  cause,  with a  view  to  the  devastation  of  the  frontiers.  Attempts  were  made by  Congress  to  avert  this  calamity,  by  convincing  the  Indians, that  they  had  no  interest  in  the  quarrel,  and  that  tlie  wiser  path was  to  observe  a  perfect  neutrality.  Nothing  can  show  tlie anxiety  of  Congress  to  effect  this  object  in  stronger  colors,  tlian the  agreement  entered  into  with  the  Delaware  tribes,  at  a  treaty concluded  at  Pittsburg,  in  1778.  I5y  an  article  in  that  treaty, the  United  States  proposed  that  a  State  should  be  formed,  to  be comjiosed  of  the  Delawares  and  other  tribes,  and  contracted  to admit  them,  when  so  formed,  as  one  of  the  members  of  the Union.  But  this,  as  it  might  i)erhaps  have  been  afterward  con- sidered, enviable  distinction,  weighed  but  little  in  the  eyes  of  the Indians,  compared  to  the  ]>rcsent  advantages  of  arms  and  eijuip- menls,  clothiiig  and  triiikets,  which  were  profusely  distributed  l;)y the  agents  of  (ireat  Britain.''  ^^  t~"  *^  >^ *1 1" *1
*  With  the  l)reaking  out  of  the  Kcvolution,  in  1775,  commenced  an  Indian ^var,  whicii  outlasicd  that  with  tlie  motlier  country  l)y  twelve  years,  and  for all  thit  period  not  only  obstructed  the  settlement  of  tlie  tenifoiy  northweht  of the  Oliii;,  but  inOicted  on  the  frontiers  the  hearl-sickenini;  cruelties  of  a  sav- a;.;e  warfjire.  .Such  uas  the  fruit  of  the  detenticjn  of  tlic  western  posts;  and *>'  the  insidious  policy  of  tlie  Canadian  Government,  in  preventing  an  accom- modation between   the   United   States  and  the   northwestern  trijjes.      Much
?
^6  HARRISON'S   HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
It  is  not  rny  design  to  detain  you  with  any  of  the  details  (tf this  war,  or  that  which  immediately  followed  the  war  of  the  Revo- lution, and  which  continued  to  the  peace  of  Greenville,  in  1795, — the  latter  either  belongs  to  the  history  of  the  adjacent  States, or  to  the  general  history  of  the  United  Stales — but  to  give  a  gen- eral idea  of  the  Indian  tribes  who  have  been  once  the  residents and  proprietors  of  our  State,  abstracted  as  much  as  possible  from our  own  history,  Xo  doubt  can  be  entertained,  that,  although constrained  to  acknowledge  the  independence  of  the  United States,  the  Government  of  Great  Britain  still  indulged  the  hope, that  at  some  distant  ])eriod  it  would  be  able  again  to  reduce  them to  subjection.  Xo  other  reason  can  be  assigned  for  the  close connection  which  they  continued  to  keep  up  with  the  tribes within  our  territorial  boundary,  and  their  constant  and  liberal supply  to  them  of  the  means  of  committing  depredations  upon our  settlements.     For  the  first  i'ew  years,  the  military  equipments
lii^lit  his  been  thrown  on  thi.>  impoftant  and  not  well-understood  chapter  of our  history,  in  the  late  valuable  "  Life  of  Tliayondanegea, "  by  Colonel  Stone. The  papers  of  this  celebrated  Mohawk  cliieftain,  placed  at  the  disposition  of his  industrious  biographer,  have  cleared  up  several  doubtful  points.  With the  other  documents  submitted  to  Colonel  Stone's  inspection,  amony:  the papers  of  Brant,  i-.  a  certified  copy  of  the  celebrated  answer  of  Lord  Jjor- clic-^ter  to  a  speech  of  the  Indians  of  the  seven  villages  of  Lower  Canada, assembled  at  Quel>ec,  as  de]-)uties  from  all  the  nations  who  attended  the  great council  of  the  Miamis  in  the  year  1793.  This  speech,  at  the  time,  was believed  to  be  authentic  by  General  Washington  and  by  Governor  Clinton  of New  \'ork,  to  -whom  a  co[;y  was  sent  by  Washington,  in  order  to  the  settle- ment of  that  point.  Ciiief  Justice  !Mar>haIl  pronounced  it  spurious,  without stating  the  grounds  of  his  judgment;  and  in  this  opinion  he  is  followed  by Mr.  Sparks.  Its  authenticity,  however,  was  admitted  at  the  time  by  tlie British  minister,  in  a  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  who  had  made  it  the subject  of  a  remonstrance.  Colonel  Stone  seems  to  put  the  matter  beyond doubt.  "I  have  myself."  says  he,  "transcribed  the  preceding  extracts  from  a cei titled  manuscript  copy,  discovered  among  the  ])apers  of  Joseph  Brant,  in my  possession. "  *
Few  events  in  the  histo;y  of  the  country  have  exercised  a  more  powerful influence  on  its  progrc-s,  than  the  victory  of  General  Wayne  over  the  com- bined forces  of  the  northwestern  confederacy,  on  the  20th  of  August,  1794. This  event,  follov/ed  as  it  was  by  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  threw  open  the floodgates  of  emigrahon  into  the  territory  beyond  the  Ohio.  The  modesty of  General 'Harrison  has  not  only  led  him  to  suppress  all  mention  of  the  fact, that  he  was  himself,  as  an  aid  of  the  commander-in-chief,  among  the  foremost in  the  dangers  of  that  decisive  conflict";-- -that  he  was  even  present  in  the battle  could  not  be  gathered  from  liis  brief  allusion  to  it.  lie  confines  him- »elf  cxclu-ively  to  a  trihule  of  well-de.served  commendation  of  the  command- ing General. —  E.  LvKkf.iT,  in  .v.-//.  A'e^.,  July,  1840,
♦Stone's  Life  0/  'I'!iaycnihittf:;en,  Vol.  II.  p  t'q. — Marshall's  Life  of  Wnshiii^i(  n.  Vol. V.  p.  5^5-  — SparK.-,'  i'/nttnt;^  of  iViuhingUui ,  Vot  X.  p.  394. -Wait's  American  State Paper.:,  Vol.  III.  p.  60,  yl  edition.
ABORIGIXES    OF    THE    OHIO    VALLEY.  IJ
were  more  cauiiously  supplied.  But  after  the  failure  of  the  expe- dition under  General  Harmar,  and  the  total  defeat  of  our  arrny, in  November.  1791,  under  the  command  of  General  St.  Glair,  the Government  o^"  Great  Britain  believed  the  propitious  moment  had arrived,  so  ardently  wished  for,  to  wipe  oft'  the  stain  which  had been  fixed  upon  their  military  renown,  in  the  former  war  with America,  and  again  to  replace  in  the  diadem  of  tlieir  sovereign, what  was  denominated  by  the  greatest  of  her  statesmen,  "the brightest  jewel  that  it  had  contained.""  The  mask  was  not,' how- ever, entirely  throv>n  off  P^or,  in  the  spring  of  1793,  Great Britain  tendered  her  services  as  a  mediator  of  peace  with  the  hos- tile tribes.  The  offer  was  accepted,  and  three  of  our  most  distin- guished citizens  were  commissioned,  under  the  guarantee  of safety,  by  the  British,  to  meet  the  Indians  at  the  rapids  of  the Miami  of  the  Lake.  This  conference  resulted  in  a  conviction  of the  insincerity  of  the  British,  and  that  there  was  no  hope  of eftecting  a  peace  upon  any  honorable  terms,  but  by  first  convinc- ing the  Indians  of  our  military  superiority."  A  lesson  of  this sort  was  in  preparation  for  their  use,  under  the  auspices  of  one  of the  heroes  of  the  revolution.  The  delay  of  a  second  suminer, produced  by  the  abortive  negotiation,  was  employed  by  him  to make  its  success  more  certain.  On  the  20th  of  August,  1794, within  the  bounds  of  our  own  State,  and  within  view  of  the  scene of  the  council,  of  the  previous  year,  the  eyes  of  the  Indians  were Oldened  to  the  fallacies  of  British  promises,  and  to  their  entire inability  to  resist  an  American  army,  when  properly  directed. The  aid  furnished  them  by  the  British,  being  open  and  palpable, fully  sufficed  to  show  their  entire  disregard  of  the  principles  of neutrality,  but  was  still  l)ehind  their  promises,  and  the  expecta^ tions  of  the  Indians.  In  despite  of  the  opposition  of  the  iiritish agents,  the  Indian  chiefs  applied  to  the  commanding  general  for an  armistice.  I'his  being  granted,  was  followed,  in  the  succeed- ing year,  by  a  general  peace.  The  tribes  which  had  been  united in  the  war  against  the  United  States,  were  the  Wyandots,  Dela- wares,  Shawanees,  Ghippewas,  Ottawas,  Botawatomies,  Z^liamis, Kel  River  tribes,  and  "\Veas.  The  three  last  constitute,  indeed, but  one  tribe,  but  in  consideration  of  the  country  which  was cceded  by  the  treaty,  being  really  their  property,  this  division  of their  nation  was  admitted  by  General  Wayne,  the  commissioner, in  order  to  giv.j  them  a  larger  sha're  of  the  annuities  which  were stipulated  to   be  paid  by  the  United  States.
The  above-mentioned  tribes,  could  not  have  brought  into  the
*  .See  note  C,  in  the  Appendix.
38  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSIC.
field  more  than  three  tiiousand  warriors  at  any  time,  during  the ten  years  preceding  the  treaty  of  Greenville;  although^  a  few years  before,  the  Miamis  alone  could  liave  furnished  more  than that  number.  The  constant  war  with  our  frontier,  had  deprived them  of  many  of  their  warriors:  but  the  ravages  of  the  small-pox v/ere  the  principal  cause  of  this  great  decrease  of  their  numbers. They  composed,  however,  a  body  of  the  finest  light- troops  in the  world.  And,  had  they  been  under  an  efficient  system  of  dis- cipline, or  possessed  enterprise  equal  to  their  valor,  the  settle- ment of  the  country  would  have  been  attended  with  much greater  difficulty  than  was  encountered  in  accomplishing  it,  and their  final  subjugation  delayed  for  some  years.  I'he  Wyandots, the  leading  tribe  of  the  confederacy,  and  that  to  whose  custody the  great  calumet,  the  symbol  of  their  union,  was  intrusted,  had autliority  to  call  a  council  of  the  chiefs  of  the  several  tribes,  to consult  upon  their  affairs.  But  there  was  no  mode  of  enforcing their  decision,  and  the  execution  of  any  plan  of  operations,  that might  have  been  determined  on,  depended  entirely  upon  the good  pleasure  of  those  who  were  to  execute  it.  At  one  time  it was  thought,  indeed,  that  they  had  adopted  the  very  judicious plan  of  cutting  off  the  convoys  of  the  army,  by  a  constant  suc- cession of  detachments.  This  was,  however,  soon  abandoned. And  under  the  influence  of  the  confidence  which  they  had  ac- quired, as  well  in  their  valor  as  their  tactics,  from  their  repeated success,  they  again  determined  to  commit  the  fate  of  themselves and  their  country  to  the  issue  of  a  general  battle.  I'his  was  all that  was  wanted  by  the  American  commander.  By  this  fatal determination,  they  had  already  j)repared  the  wreath  of  laurels v/hich  was  to  adorn  his  brow  by  their  complete  and  total  discom- fiture. The  tactics  vdiich  had  been  adopted  for  the  American Legion,  had  been  devised  with  a  reference  to  all  the  subtilties, which  those  of  the  Indians  were  v/ell  known  to  possess.  It united  with  the  ap[>arently  opposite  qualities  of  compactness and  flexibility,  and  a  facility  of  expansion  under  any  circum- .stances,  and  in  any  situation,  v/hich  rendered  utterly  abortive  the peculiar  tact  of  the  Indians  in  assailing  the  flanks  of  their  adver- saries. The  correctness  of  the  tlieory,  which  dictated  this  plan, was  proved  in  the  trial,  and  confirmed  the  truth  of  the  senten- tious motto  of  a  military  society.,,  even  wliere  Indians  are  the enemies: — "■  Scicutia  in  brllo,  pax:^
It  may  be  proper  that  I  should  say  some  thing  more  as  to  the character  of  the  now  scattered  and  almost  extinct  trii.)cs  which  so long  and  so  successfully  resisted  our  arms,  and  who  for  many years  after,  stood  in   die  relation  of  dependants,  acknowledging
ABORIGINES    OF    THE   OHIO    VALLEY.  39
themseUes  under  uur  exclusive  protection.  Their  character  as warriors,  has  been  already  remarked  upon.  Their  bravery  has never  been  questioned,  although  there  was  certainly  a  consider- able diflerence  between  the  several  tribes,  in  this  respect.  With all  but  the  Wyandots,  tiight  in  battle,  when  meeting  with  unex- pected resistence,  or  obstacle,  brought  with  it  no  disgrace.  It was  considered  rather  as  a  principle  of  tactics.  And  I  think  it may  be  fairly  considered  as  having  its  source  in  that  peculiar temperament  of  mind,  wliich  they  often  manifested,  of  not  press- ing fortune  under  any  sinister  circumstances,  but  patiently  wait- ing until  the  chances  of  a  successful  issue  appeared  to  be  favorable. With  the  Wyandots  it  was  otherwise.  Their  youth  were  taught to  consider  any  thing  that  had  the  appearance  of  an  acknowledg- ment of  the  superiority  of  an  enemy,  as  disgraceful.  In  the battle  of  the  Miami  Rapids,  of  thirteen  chiefs  of  that  tribe  who v.'ere  present,  one  only  survived,  and  he  badly  wounded.*
As  it  regards  their  moral  and  intellectual  qualities,  the  differ- ence between  the  tribes  was  still  greater.  The  Shawanees,  IJela- wares,  and  Miamis,  were  much  superior  to  the  other  members  of the  confederacy.  I  have  known  individuals  among  them  of  very high  order  of  talents,  but  these  were  not  generally  to  be  relied upon  for  sincerity.  The  Little  Turtle,  of  the  Miami  tribe,  was one  of  this  description,  as  was  the  Blue  Jacket,  a  Shawanee  chief. I  think  it  probable  that  'J'ecumthey  possessed  more  integrity  than any  other  of  the  chiefs,  who  attained  to  much  distinction;  bat  he violated  a  solemn  engagement,  which  he  had  freely  contracted, and  there  are  strong  sus])icions  of  his  having  formed  a  treacher- ous design,  which  an  accident  only  prevented  him  from  accom- plishing. Sinister  instances  are,  however,  to  be  found  in  the conduct  of  great  men,  in  the  history  of  almost  all  civilized  nations. But  these  instances  are  more  than  counterbalanced  by  the  num- ber of  individuals  of  high  moral  character,  which  were  to  be found  amongst  the  principal,  and  secondary  chiefs,  of  the  four tribes  above  mentioned.  This  was  particularly  the  case  with Tarhe,  or  the  Crane,  the  grand  sachem  of  the  Wyandots,  and H-lack  Hoof,  the  chief  of  the  Shawanees.  Many  instances  might be  adduced,  to  show  the  possession  on  the  part  of  these  men,  of an  uncommon  degree  of  disinterestedness  and  magnanimity,  and strict  performance  of  their  enga.^^ements,  under  circumstances ^v•hich  would  be  considered  by  many  as  justifying  evasion.  But one  of  the  brightest  parts  of  the  character  of  those  Indians,  is their  sound  regard  to  the  obligations  of  friendship.      A  pledge  of
*  See  note  D,  in  the  Appendix.
40  HARRISON  S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
this  kind,  once  given  by  an  Indian  of  any  character,  becomes  the ruling  passion  of  his  soul,  to  which  every  other  was  made  to  yield. He  regards  it  as  superior  to  every  other  obligation.  And  the  life of  his  friend  would  be  required  at  the  hands  of  him,  (or  his  tribe,) who  had  taken  it,  even  if  it  had  occurred  in  a  fair  field  of  battle, and  in  the  performance  of  his  duty  as  a  warrior.  An  event  might have  occurred  in  the  late  war  with  Great  Britain,  and  their  alHes, in  which  a  most  striking  exemplification  of  this  principle  would have  been  exhibited.  In  the  autumn  of  1793,  the  chief.  Stiff Knee,  of  the  Seneca  tribe,  who  had  been  the  friend  of  Cieneral Richard  Ikitler,  who  had  fallen  on  the  fatal  4th  of  November, 1791,  joined  the  army  of  General  Wayne,  for  the  purpose  of avenging  his  death.  The  advance  upon  the  enemy  having  been arrested,  from  the  lateness  of  the  season,  and  the  troops  placed in  cantonments  tor  the  winter,  impatient  of  delay,  the  chief  ear- nestly solicited  the  General  to  be  permitted  to  go  with  a  detach- ment to  attack  one  of  the  positions  of  the  enemy.  Tliis  request was,  of  course,  refused.  To  satisfy  liim,  and  to  prevent  his  going alone,  the  General  informed  him  that  an  ample  opportunity  ot~ vengeance  would  be  ottered  in  the  spring.  But  the  soul  of  the warrior  could  not  brook  this  delay.  To  the  officer  with  whom he  lodged,  he  expatiated  upon  the  unsupportable  weight  by which  his  mind  was  oppressed,  at  the  postponement  of  the  day of  retribution  for  the  death  of  his  brother,  whose  spirit  was  con- stantly calling  on  him  for  vengeance.  Upon  one  of  these  occa- sion.s,  he  said,  that,  denied  an  opportunity  of  performing  this sacred  obligation,  nothing  remained  but  to  convince  his  friend how  readily  he  would  have  died  for  him,  and  before  his  arm could  be  caught,  he  plunged  a  poignard  in  his  bosom.
I  am  satisfied  that  this  is  not  the  jiroper  time  to  enquire  how far  the  United  States  have  fuh"illed  the  obligations  imposed  upon them  by  their  assuming,  at  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  the  character of  sole  protectors  of  the  tribes  who  were  parties  to  it,  a  stipula- tion often  repeated  in  subsequent  treaties.  But  I  will  take  this opportunity  of  declaring,  that  if  the  duties  it  imposed,  were  not faithfully  executed,  during  the  administration  of  Mr.  Jefterson, and  Mr.  .Madison,  as  far  as  the  power  vested  by  the  laws  in  the Executive  v.ould  perniit,  the  immediate  agents  of  the  Government are  responsible,  as  the  directions  dven  to  them  were  clear  and explicit,  not  only  to  fulfill  with  scrupulous  fidelity,  all  the  treaty obligations,  but  upon  all  occasions,  to  promote  the  happiness  of these  dej^endant  people,  as  far  as  attention  and  expenditure  ot money  could  effect  these  objects.  ,
ABORIGINES   OF   THE    OHIO    VALLEY.     .      .        4E
(From  the  North  American  RevircV^  J^^b'->  1^40.)
We  are  left  by  our  author  to  learn  the  last  important  chapter- in  the  history  of  most  of  the  Indian  tribes,  once  conspicuous  ins the  valley  of  the  Ohio,  from  other  pens  than  his  own.  Beyond  a brief  allusion,  in  the  concluding  paragraphs  of  the  Discourse,  to- the  conduct  of  the  celebrated  chieftain  Tecumthe,  at  the  council of  Vincennes,  in  1810,  there  is  no  reference  to  those  momentous^ events  and  struggles,  in  which  General  Harrison  himself  performed the  most  conspicuous  part.  This  celebrated  Indian  chieftain,  who- may  with  propriety  be  placed  by  the  historians  on  the  same  page with  King  Philip,  Pontiac,  and  Brant,  was  the  son  of  a  Shawanoe- father  and  Cherokee  mother,  a  descent  which  admirably  adapted him  to  achieve  that  project,  which,  to  some  extent,  is  supposed to  have  been  contemplated  by  the  other  eminent  Indian  chief- tains whom  we  have  named,  that  of  bringing  all  the  Indian  tribes into  one  grand  confederacy.  This  policy,  as  far  as  it  extended,^ was  the  secret  of  the  strength  of  the  Five  Nations.  It  is  even- affecting  to  hear  these  poor  children  of  nature,  by  their  speaker Canassatego,  at  the  council  of  Lancaster,  in  1744,  recommending Union  to  the  American  colonies.  At  the  session  of  the  fourth OF  JULY  of  that  year,  the  eloquent  Onondago  warrior  used  this remarkable  language:
"We  have  one  thiug  further  to  say,  and  that  is,  we  heartily recommend  union  and  good  agreement  between  you  and  your brethren.  Never  disagree,  but  preserve  a  strict  friendship  for each  other,  and  thereby  you,  as  well  as  we,  will  become  the stronger.
"Our  wise  forefathers  established  union  and  amity  between  the Five  Nations;  this  has  made  us  formidable;  this  has  given  us- ^veight  and  authority  with  our  neighboring  nations.
"We  are  a  powerful  confederacy;  and,  by  your  observing  the same  methods  which  our  wise  forefathers  have  taken,  you  will acquire  fresh  strength  and  power;. .therefore,  whatsoever  befalls^ you,  never  fall  out  with  each  other.  ■-■'
If  this  is  the  language  of  barbarism,  what  is  civilization ! Colflen's  Ilislary  of  the  Five  A\itions ;  in  the  Papers  annexed,  p.   1 49.
u-
i
42  HARRISON'S    HISTORICAL    DISCOURSE.
While  we  write  these  hnes,  the  iiitehigence  reaches  us,  tliat,  in virtue,  rather  let  us  say  by  force,  of  one  of  those  monstrous  impo- sitions-called Indian  treaties,  negotiated,  in  the  present  instance, against  the  wishes  of  fourteen-fifteenths  of  those  whose  lands  it cedes,  the  last  remnant  of  those  sagacious  and  formidable  tribes, whose  representative,  in  1744,  uttered  these  counsels  of  friend- ship and  wisdom,  are  about  to  be  driven  from  their  last  foothold in  New  York,  and  transported  to  a  "new  home''  west  of  the States  of  Arkansas  and  Missouri.  Whatever  doubts  may  rest  on the  question  discussed  in  the  address  before  us,  whether  the  vic- torious arms  of  the  Five  Nations  were  ever  pushed  to  the  Missis- -sippi,  no  doubt,  unhappily,  will  be  left  to  the  future  historian,  that they  are  now  to  be  driven  across  that  river,  by  their  civilized, humane,  and  Christian  neighbors;  and  this  by  force  of  a  treaty, of  which  tlie  President  of  the  United  States  remarks,  in  commu- nicating it  to  Congress,  '"that  improper  means  have  been  em- ployed to  obtain  the  assent  of  the  Seneca  chiefs,  there  is  too -much  reason  to  believe."  That  their  condition  will  be  improved "by  the  removal  is  an  opinion,  we  know,  entertained  by  persons of  integrity  and  honor,  and  we  devoutly  hope  that  it  may  be  real- ized. But  this  opinion,  however  confidently  entertained,  and however  likely  to  be  justified  by  the  result,  furnishes  no  apology, so  long  as  their  right  to  occupy  their  reservations  is  admitted,  for forcing  them  to  quit  their  homes,  under  the  forms  of  a  mock treaty,  concluded  against  the  wishes,  however  unenlighted  or  mis- guided, of  a  great  majority  of  the  tribe. — Edward  Evereit.
APPEN  DI  X.
NOTE  A.
The  object  of  Themistocles  was  to  induce  the  council  of  war to  adopt  his  opinion  of  fighting  the  l^ersians,  in  the  narrow  strait which  separates  the  island  of  Salarais  from  the  main,  whicli  would prevent  them  from  being  surrounded  by  the  immensely  superior fleet  of  the  latter.  The  commander  of  the  Spartan  squadron, and  those  of  the  other  states  within  the  Isthmus  of  Corinth,  were desirous  to  retreat  to  the  shores  of  Peloponnesus,  in  the  vicinity of  which  the  army  of  the  Peloponnesian  Greeks  had  been  assem- bled, for  the  purpose  of  guarding  {he  isthmus,  which  afforded  the only  land  entrance  to  tliat  portion  of  tlie  country.  Themistocles endeavored  to  convince  the  council,  that  if  they  abandoned  the favorable  position  which  the  straits  of  Salamis  afforded,  and attempted  a  retreat  to  the  coast  of  Peloponnesus,  they  would  be pursued  by  the  Persians,  and  obliged  to  fight  in  the  open  sea, which  would  enable  the  enemy  to  surround  their  comparatively small  force,  and  that  defeat  would  be  inevitable.  The  Cxrecian ficet  being  destroyed,  the  Persians  would  be  enabled  to  turn  the position  of  the  army,  which  would  be  deprived  of  all  the  advan- tages in  defending  it.  He  was,  also,  afraid  that  the  fleet  would separate,  each  squadron  repairing  to  the  harbor  of  the  state  to which  it  belonged,  preferring  (as  is  the  case  in  all  confederacies, where  there  is  no  common  head  in  the  government,  with  power to  enforce  obedience  to  its  decrees,)  the  interest  of  the  individual member  to  which  it  belonged,  to  the  common  good.  The  debate became  warm;  and  the  Spartan  commander  losing  his  self-com- mand, raised  his  staff  to  strike  his  opponent.  The  noble  Athe- nian, full  of  confidence  in  the  measures  he  had  recommended, for  the  destruction  of  their  common  enemy,  and  of  enthusiasm  in the  cause  of  liberty  and  civilization,  attempted  neither  to  avert the  blow,  or  resent  the  indignit}'.  His  remark,  "  strike,  but hear  me,"  seemed  rather  to  invite  it,  as  the  price  of  the  attention ^^f  his  enraged  commander,  to  argunients  which  he  knew  could 'lot  be  answered.
Kurybiades,  av/ed  by  the  indomitable  firmness  of  the  Athenian, (aimed  his  passion,  submitted  himself  to  the  mighty  genius  of  his »'ival,  and  (ireece  was  saved.
I
44  APPENDIX.  ,.;  .
xNOTE  B.
The  circumstances  which  miUtate  most  against  the  supposition of  the  identity  of  the  Aztecs,  with  the  authors  of  extensive  ancient works  in  Ohio,  is  the  admitted  fact,  that  the  latter  entered  the valley  of  Anahuac,  from  the  Northwest,  that  is,  from  California, which  is  much  out  of  the  direct  route  from  the  Ohio  to  Mexico. A  strong  argument  in  favor  of  it,  is  the  similarity  of  the  remains which  are  found  in  that  region  (California),  as  well  as  in  Mexico itself,  with  those  in  the  valley  of  the  Ohio.  I  am  not  informed whether  there  are  any  such  in  the  intermediate  country  between the  lower  Mississippi  and  California.  But  if  there  are  none,  it will  serve  rather  to  confirm  and  strengthen  my  opinion,  that  the fugitives  from  the  Ohio,  w^ere,  like  those  from  Troy,  a  mere  rem- nant, whose  numbers  were  too  small  to  erect  works  of  so  much labor,  as  those  they  had  left  behind  had  required;  but,  after  their strength  had  been  increased,  by  a  residence  for  some  time  in California,  the  passion  for  such  works  returned  with  the  ability  to erect  them.
The  similarity,  in  point  of  form  and  mode  of  construction, between  the  works  now  to  be  seen  in  all  the  countries  1  have mentioned,  (Ohio,  Mexico,  and  California,)  proves  that  they must  have  been  erected  by  the  same,  or  a  kindred  people,  derived from  the  same  stock,  and  if  the  latter,  the  separation  took  place ^//er  the  custofn  of  such  cfccfions  had  couiuienccd.
If  tlie  opinion  is  ado};ted,  that  the  Aztecs  were  never  in  Ohio, but  had  pursued  the  direct  route  from  Asia  (whence  it  is  believed they  all  came)  to  California,  along  the  coast  of  the  Pacific  Ocean, and  that  the  authors  of  die  Ohio  erections,  were  from  the  same continent  and  stock,  the  question  may  be  asked,  Where  did  the separation  take  place?  Was  it  before  they  left  Asia,  or  after  their arrival  upon  the  American  continent?  Are  there  any  works  simi- lar to  those  in  Ohio,  Mexico,  and  California,  to  be  found  in  the northeast  of  Asia,  or  l)et\veen  the  Pacific  and  the  Rocky  ?vIountains, or  on  the  route  which  that  branch  of  the  nation  would  have  pur- sued, which  bent  their  course  towards  the  valley  of  the  Ohio?  If these  questions  are  answered  in  the  negative,  it  will  thus  go  far to  prove  that  the  practice  of  constructing  such  works  originated in  the  latter,  and  that  those  who  erected  them  were  the  same people  who  afterwards  sojourned  in  California,  and  finally  settled ill  the  valley  of  Anahuac,  or  Mexico.  If  we  adopt  the  opinion, that  they  were  totally  a  distinct  people,  or  were  different  branches of  the  same  original  Asiatic  stock,  we  must  believe  also  that  they each  fell  into  the  practice  of  erectiiig  extensive  works,  of  the  same
APPENDIX.  45
form,  and  of  tlie  same  materials,  (in  a  manner  not  known  to  be practised  by  any  other  people,)  without  any  previous  knowledge to  guide  them,  and  without  any  intercourse.  This,  to  say  the least  of  it,  is  very  improbable.
If  the  Aztecs  were  not  the  authors  of  the  Ohio  works,  we  can only  account  for  the  ultimate  fate  of  those  who  were,  by  supposing that  they  were  entirely  extirpated,  preferring,  like  the  devoted Xumantians,  to  be  buried  under  the  ruins  of  their  own  walls,  to seekins:  safetv  bv  an  ifrnominious  flig^ht.
I  find  no  difficulty,  from  the  facts  mentioned  in  the  text,  in adopting  the  opinion,  that  these  people  were  conquered  by  those who  were  less  civilized  than  themselves.  An  enlightened  nation, whose  military  institutions  are  founded  upon  scientific  principles, and  which  relies  upon  its  own  citizens  for  protection,  will  never be  subdued  by  .savages,  nor  by  those  who  have  made  little  progress in  civilization.  They  may  be  beaten  in  a  battle,  indeed  in  many b'attles,  as  was  the  case  with  the  barbarians  of  ( iaul  and  Germany, who  first  broke  through  the  boundaries  of  the  Roman  Rei)ubiic: and  in  our  day  and  nation,  when  the  northwestern  Indians  defeated our  armies  in  two  successive  campaigns,  as  they  had  previously done  those  of  Great  Britain.  But  their  triumphs  will  be  termi- nated as  soon  as  the  causes  which  produce  them  are  ascertained, and  a  change  is  eftected  in  the  plan  of  operations,  or  in  the  mode of  forming  the  troops  to  meet  the  exigency,  as  was  the  case  in  the lormer  under  the  direction  of  Caius  Marius,  and  in  our  own  under the  direction  of  Anthony  Wayne.  But  it  is  quite  otherwise,  with those  who  have  made  such  small  progress  in  civilization,  as  to  be unable  to  make  war  upon  fixed  and  scientific,  principles.  I  have assigned  to  the  nameless  nation  of  our  valley  the  character  of  an agricultural  ])eopie,  and  this  is  precisely  the  state  (without  military institutions)  in  which  a  naticfli  is  most  weak,  and  most  easily  con- quered, by  those  who  still  depend  uj)on  the  chase  for  food,  or >vho  have  advanced  still  further,  and  draw  their  subsistence  from tiocks  and  herds  of  their  own  rearing.  The  labors  of  agriculture serve  to  form  the  body  to  endure  the  tojls  and  hardships  incident to  a  military  life.  There  is  something,  too,  in  that  kind  of  employ- ment, which  serves  to  kindle  a  spirit  of  independence  in  the bosom,  and  nurture  the  feelings  of  patriotism.  Hence,  it  has li'Tl>j)ened,  that  agriculturabnations,  ^yhich  had  engrafted  a  system of  military  instruction  upon  the  ordinary  education  of  youth,  have always  been  the  most  renowned  in  war,  and  most  difiicuh  to  be 'on(|uered.
'TIanc  olim  veceres  vitaiii  coluere   Sabiiii,
I  lane  Remus  et  frater  ;  sic   Kortis  I'.tiuria  crevit,
46  ■'  APPENDIX.  •'
Scilicet  et  rerum  facta  est  pulcherrima   ]\oma, Scptcmque  xma  sibi  rnuro  circurndcdit  arces. "
2d.   Geokgics,  532.
But  v/hilst  the  occupation  of  the  husbandman  furnishes  the  best materials  for  making  good  soldiers,  as  well  from  the  qualities  it imparts  to  the  mind,  as  the  strength  and  activity  which  the  body receives  from  constant  exercise  and  nutritive  aliment,  it  teaches nothing  of  the  military  art.  The  hunter,  on  the  contrary,  is  already a  soldier,  as  far,  at  least,  as  individual  (lualities  can  make  him  so. But  the  pastoral  life  (not  that  which  the  poets  have  furnished,  the pictures  drawn  from  their  own  imaginations,  but  that  which authentic  history  describes,)  furnishes,  not  only  men  suited  to war,  by  their  personal  qualities,  but  armies  which  have  accjuired, from  their  congregated  mode  of  life,  a  degree  of  discipline,  and  a knowledge  of  the  most  important  operations  of  war.  There  is nothing  in  the  employment  of  the  agriculturist,  or  artisan,  which bears  any  resemblance  to  military  duty.  The  citizens  employed in  such  labor  (exclusively)  cease  to  be  soldiers,  and  the  agricult- ural or  manufacturing  nation,  which  adopts  no  system  of  military instruction  for  its  youth,  must  depend  upon  the  em.[)loyment  of mercenaries  for  its  protection,  or  it  will  become  a  prey  to  the first  invader.  'J'he  Cierman  or  Scythian  hordes,  which  obtained from  the  fears,  or  the  weakness,  of  the  Roman  emperors,  settle- ments within  their  borders,  were  unable,  after  a  few  years,  to resist  the  new  swarms  from  the  same  hives,  which  pressed  upon them,  and  which  adhered  to  their  original  mode  of  life  and  man- ners. But  the  most  extraordinary  instance  of  the  superiority  of savages,  in  war,  to  an  agricultural  j)eople  who  neglect  military institutions,  is  furnished  by  the  history  of  our  own  parent  Isle,  in the  application  of  the  Britons  for  assistance  to  a  Roman  emiperor, after  the  abandonment  of  their  Island  by  troops  of  the  latter.  It is  impossible  for  language  to  convey,  at  once,  a  more  dastardly spirit,  and  consciousness  of  extreme  imbecility,  than  that  used  by the  Briti^ih  deputies,  on  this  occasion.  "The  Caledoni;in  sav- ages/' say  they,  "drive  us  to  the  ocean,  and  the  ocean  again repels  us  back  upon  our  enemies."
The  fate  of  our  predecessors,  in  the  occupancy  of  our  fine country,  was,  no  doubt,  long  ])rocrastinated  by  their  ])atience  of labor,  and  knowledge  in  the  art  of  fortification.  By  similar means,  and  by  the  applicafion  of  a  chemical  discovery,  to  the purposes  of  their  defence,  the  tottering  fiibric  of  the  lower  Roman Empire,  was  for  many  ages  sustained,  and  long  after  the'-'  "naked and    trembling   legions''   had   declined    to  meet    their   barbarous
•  Their  defensive  annoi  was  laid  aside  in  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  (}ratian.
APPENDIX.  47-
adversaries  in  an  equal  field.  The  Ohio  fortresses  were  not erected  for  defence  against  a  casual  invasion.  The  size  of  their walls,  and  the  solidity  of  their  contruction.  sliows  tliat  tlie  danger which  they  were  intended  to  avert,  was  of  constant  recurrence. Hut  whilst  their  persons  were  safe,  behind  bulwarks  impregnable to  savages,  they  might  behold,  from  their  summits,  the  devastation cf  their  ripened  fields.  The  seed  time,  indeed,  as  well  as  that  of the  harvest,  might  be  marked  by  a  crafty  foe;  and  thus  the  hopes of  reaping  even  a  portion  of  the  gifts  of  autumn,  be  destroyed"by want  of  opportunity  to  perform  the  indispensible  labors  of  spring.
It  appears,  however,  that  no  exertion  was  omitted  to  avert their  impending  fate.  The  work  to  which  I  have  referred,  at  the mouth  of  the  Great  Miami,  was  a  citadel,  more  elevated  tium  the .-Vcropolis  of  Athens,  although  easier  of  access,  as  it  is  not  like the  latter,  a  solid  rock,  but  on  three  sides  as  nearly  perpendicular as  could  be,  to  be  composed  of  earth.  A  large  space  of  the lower  ground,  was,  however,  enclosed  by  wails,  uniting  it  with  the Ohio,  'i'he  foundation  of  that,  (being  of  stone,  as  well  as  those of  the  citadel,)  that  forms  the  western  defence,  is  still  very  visible where  it  crosses  the  Miami,  which,  at  the  period  of  its  erection, must  have  discharged  itself  into  the  Ohio  nuich  lov/er  down  than it  now  does.  I  have  never  been  able  to  discover  the  eastern wall  of  this  enclosure,  but  if  its  direction  from  the  citadel  to  the Ohio,  was  such  as  it  should  have  been,  to  embrace  the  largest space,  with  the  least  labor,  there  could  not  have  been  less  than three  hundred  acres  enclosed.  The  same  land,  at  this  day,  will produce  under  the  best  cultivation,  from  seventy  to  one  hundred bushels  of  corn  per  acre.  Under  such  as  was  then,  probably, i>estowed  upon  it,  there  would  be  mucii  less,  but  still  contribute much  to  the  sup^port  of  a  considerable  settlement  of  people, remarkable  beyond  all  others,  for  abstemiousness  in  tlieir  diet.'''
If  we  had  the  means  of  investing  closely  the  causes  which  led to  the  disasters  of  this  nation,  one,  not  the  least  in  eflect,  would,  I think,  be  found  in  their  abominable  religion,  which  taught  the  pro- I'itiation  of  the  Deity,  not  by  the  sacrifice  of  the  firstlings  of  flocks •Tnd  herds,  which,  being  the  gift  of  God  to  man,  he  might  again "ffer  to  his  Maker,  in  gratitude  for  blessings  received,  or  to '>l)tain  others  which  he  sought,  but  by  the  immolation  by  man  of liis  fellow  man;  that  only  creature  of  all  that  were  created,  whom die  Creator  reser\ed  for  himself,  toTiilfill  his  purposes,  and  inin- 5-^ter  his  glory.
When  the  Spaniards,  under  Cortes,  were  subsisted  Ijy  the  hospitality  of tlse  Mexicans,  and  other  .South  American  Indians,  they  conijolained  that  one "Spaniard  would  consume  more  in  one  day,  than   would  sufiice  ten   Indians.
4^  APPENDIX.
It  is  a  little  remarkable,  that  whilst  the  savages  (those  in  the hunter  state)  throughout  the  American  continent,  should  acknowl- ■ed-re  the  superintendence  of  the  world  \xy  one  God,  and  that  a <iod  of  mercy  and  love;  those  who  were  a  little  farther  advanced in  civilization,  who  congregated  together  in  cities  and  villages, and  who  drew  their  subsistence  from  the  fruits  of  the  earth,  pro- duced by  their  own  patient  labor,  should  clothe  the  god  or  gods whom  they  worship,  with  attributes  and  i)assions,  which  are  only to  be  appeased  by  a  sacrifice  of  blood,  and  that  blood  poured out  from  the  bosoms  of  their  fellow  men.
It  would  seem,  then,  that  the  first  advances  in  civilization. %vere  etjually  unfavorable  to  liberty,  and  to  the  proper  understand- ing of  the  obligations  due  from  man  to  his  Maker.  In  the  first stages  of  society,  the  political  institutions  are  few  and  inefficient, and  whatever  force  they  may  possess,  is  applicable,  rather  to their  foreign,  than  their  domestic  transaction.  Each  individual  is tiie  guardian  of  his  own  rights,  and  acquiring  from  it  a  high  idea of  his  personal  independence,  is  willing  to  respect  the  equal -claims  of  others.  If  the  social  ties  are  few,  they  are  proportion- ally strong:  and  the  scene  of  attachment  to  the  tribe  or  nation  to which  he  belongs,  is  never  felt  in  greater  force  in  any  future  stage of  civilization.  An  injury  oflered  to  any  individual  belonging  to it,  from  one  of  another  trilje,  would  be  considered  his  own,  and his  life  would  be  willingly  risked  to  redress  or  avenge  it.  His ideas  of  religion  are  derived  from  the  spark  which  Cjod  has  fur- nisiied  to  every  bosom,  and  from  the  great  book  of  nature,  whicli is  constantly  spread  before  him.  As  these  lights  are  in  ])ossession of  all,  he  is  willing  that  all  should  form  their  opinions  from  them, to  suit  themselves.  But  these  feelings  and  sentiments,  so  univer- •sal  in  the  hunter  state,  seem  soon  to  disappear,  when  men  begin to  congregate  in  towns,  and  especially  when  the  idea  of  individ- m!  projjerty  is  established.  In  such  a  state  of  society,  disputes and  collisions  will  constantly  arise,  and  it  becomes  necessary  that ll)e  hitherto  independent  individual,  .should  surrender  some  por- tion of  his  rights,  the  more  certainly  to  secure  those  which  he reserves.  liut  in  his  inexperience,  the  guards  with  which  he a:temi)ts  to  |)rotect  the  latter,- are  too  feeble  to  resist  the  assaults %*hich  are  made  upon  them.  By  one  set  of  his  former  equals, vliom  he  has.  contributed  to  elevate  to  i)ower,  the  whole  of  his |>ohii(al  rights  are  usuri^ed,  and  he  becomes  a  slave;  by  another, Jiis  cons(it:nre  is  taken  into  keeping,  :ind  he  is  a  monster. Strange,  l)ut  true  as  strange,  that  as  men  progress  in  the  arts, whith  '.-naljle  them  to  live  with  more  ease  and  comfort,  the\- ^hould  lose  tiK'  dignity  of  character  and  independence  which  had
APPENDIX.  49
distinguished  them  in  the  earlier  stages  of  society.  That  they. who  were  once  jealous  of  their  liberties,  should  become  the  will- ing instruments  for  enslaving  others;  who  had  seen,  in  the  opera- tion of  nature  s  god,  nothing  bat  love  to  mankind,  and  the  grant of  equal  power  to  all,  should  admit  the  pretensions  of  men  liivt themselves,  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Creator,  to  claim  the right  to  punish  supposed  breaches  of  his  will;  and  worse  than all,  to  clothe  him  with  the  forms,  the  cruelty,  and  ferocity  of  the most  savage  monsters  of  the  desert.  But  such  was  the  condition of  the  Mexicans,  when  first  visited  by  the  Europeans,  and  such, no  doubt,  was  that  of  the  Aztecs  in  the  valley  of  the  Ohio.  The temples  of  Circleville.  Grave  Creek,  and  Newark,  no  doubt,  annu- ally streamed  with  the  blood  (if  not  of  thousands,  like  those  of Cholula  and  Mexico.)  of  hundreds  of  human  beings.
At  the  period  of  the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards  in  Mexico,  the profusion  of  victims  demanded  tor  sacrifice,  was  supplied  by  pris- oners taken  in  war.  Dr.  Robertson  objects  to  the  account  given by  all  the  early  Spanish  historians,  as  to  the  number  of  these  vic- tims, upon  the  ground  of  the  eftect  it  would  have  upon  popula- tion. He  adopts  the  opinion  of  Las  Casas,  that  if  there  had been  such  a  waste  of  the  human  species,  the  country  never  could have  attained  that  degree  of  populousness  for  which  it  was remarkable."  This  reasoning  is  not,  however,  sufiicient  to  over- throw the  positive  assertion  of  so  many  cotemporary  historians. For  many  years  before  the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards,  the  Mexicans had  been  engaged  in  successful  wars;  and  as  it  was  the  inviolable practice  to  sacrifice  every  prisoner,  the  number  might  have  reached, tor  several  years  preceeding  the  arrival  of  Cortes,  even  the  highest number  which  the  historians  referred  to,  have  mentioned,  without confiicting  with  their  assertions,  as  to  the  populousness  of  the country.  For,  in  relation  to  the  latter,  these  writers  must  have referred  not  to  the  conquered  nations,  but  to  the  conquerors,  or those,  the  Tlascalans  for  instance,  who  had  not  submitted  to  the Mexican  power.  It  is  asserted  by  Captain  Cook,  in  his  third \  oyage,  that  the  practice  of  sacrificing  human  victims  pervaded all  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  Ocean;  and  that  it  produced  a  very 'lecided  effect  upon  the  population.t  The  want  of  prisoners  of ^vas,  was  supplied  from  their  own  people.  A\'hen  this  distin- guished navigator  was  last  at  Otaheite,  a  civil  war  was  raging. t  he  party  attached  to  the  head  chief  or  king,  had  been  unsuccess- ful!. After  each  disaster,  sacrifices  of  this  kind  were  offered  to ^heir  god,  to  obtain  more  fixvorable  results.     One  of  the  chiefs.
Vol.  iii.,  page  198  9.  +  Cook's  Voyage,  vol.  !_.,  page  34K.
4  .    
IMEWBEHRY LIBRARY
GiilOAGO
50  APPENDIX.      •
upon  being  questioned  upon  thi-  subject,  defended  the  propriety of  the  practice,  because,  as  he  said,  it  propitiated  the  deity,  who '•fed  upon  the  souls  of  the  sacrificed,"  and  repelled  the  charge  of inhumanity,  "because  the  victim  was  selected  from  the  poorest  of the  people,"'  the  very  class  which  forms  the  strength  of  every nation;  which  fights  its  battles,  and  protects  its  independence. But  for  the  indisputable  evidence  which  we  have  upon  this  sub- ject, it  could  scarcely  be  believed,  that  the  rulers  of  any  people, could  ever  adopt  a  practice,  at  once  so  cruel,  and  so  destructive in  Its  consequences — producing  the  necessity  of  a  double  draft upon  their  population,  to  supply  the  losses  of  the  battle  field,  and the  demands  of  their  own  priesthood.  Such,  no  doubt,  was  the practise  with  the  Mexicans,  and  the  nation  of  whose  history  I have  attempted  to  present  some  gleanings,  and  it  will  serve  to strengthen  my  conjecture,  that  the  fate  of  the  latter  was  hastened by  their  laboring  under  the  double  curse  of  an  arbitrary  govern- ment, and  a  cruel,  bigoted,  and  bloody  religion.
NOTE  C.
The  tilfiniaiiini  of  the  Indians,  was  to  make  the  Ohio  the  boun- dary between  the  United  States  and  themselves.
NOTE  D.
When  General  Wayne  assumed  the  position  of  Greenville,  in 1793,  he  sent  for  Captain  Wells,  who  commanded  a  company  of scouts,  and  told  him,  that  "he  wished  him  to  go  to  Sandusky  and take  a  prisoner,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  information."  Wells (who,  having  been  taken  from  Kentucky  when  a  boy,  and  brought up  amongst  the  Indians,  was  perfectly  acquainted  with  their  char- acter) answered,  that  "he  could  take  a  prisoner,  but  not  from Sandusky."  "And  why  not  from  Sandusky?"  said  the  General. "Because,"  answered  the  Captain,  "there  are  only  Wyandots there."  "Well,  why  will  not  Wyandots  do?"  "For  the  i)est of  reasons,"  said  Wells,  "because  Wyandots  will  not  be  taken alive."
WILLI A^I   HENRY    HARRISON.
On  the  banks  of  the  James  River,  in  Charles  City  County,  Va., is  a  plain  mansion,  around  which  is  spread  the  beautiful  estate  of Berkeley^  the  birthplace  of  a  signer  of  the  Declaration  of  Inde- pendence, and  of  one  of  tlie  Presidents  of  the  United  States. The  former  was  Benjamin  Harrison,  and  the  latter  was  his  son, ^ViUiam  Henry  Harrison,  who  was  born  on  the  9th  of  Februar}^, 1773.  At  a  suitable  age  he  was  placed  in  Hampden  Sydney College,  where  he  was  graduated;  and  then,  under  the  supervision of  his  guardian  (Robert  Morris),  in  Philadelphia,  prepared  him- self for  the  practice  of  the  medical  art.  At  about  that  time,  an army  was  gathering,  to  chastise  the  hostile  Indians  in  the  North- west. Young  Harrison's  military  genius  was  stirred  within  him, and  having  obtained  an  ensign's  commission  from  President "Washington,  he  joined  the  army  at  the  age  of  nineteen  years. He  was  promoted  to  a  lieutenancy  in  1792;  and,  in  1794,  he  fol- lowed Wayne  to  conflicts  with  the  North-western  tribes,  where  he greatly  distinguished  himself,  He  was  appointed  secretary  of  the North-western  Territory  in  1797,  and  resigned  his  military  com- mission. Two  years  afterward,  when  only  twenty-six  years  of age,  he  was  elected  the  first  delegate  to  Congress  from  the  Terri- tory.*" On  the  erection  of  Indiana  into  a  separate  territorial government  in  1801,  Harrison  was  appointed  its  chief  magistrate, and  he  was  continued  in  that  office,  by  consecutive  reappoint- ments, until  181 3.+  when  the  war  with  Great  Britain  called  him to  a  more  important  sphere  of  action.  He  had  already  exhibited his  military  skill  in  the  battle  with  the  Indians  at  Tippecanoe,  in the  autumn  of  181 1.  He  was  commissioned  a  major-general  in the  Kentucky  militia,  by  brevet,  early  in  181 2.  After  the  surren- der of  General  Hull,  at  Detroit,  he  was  appointed  major-general in  the  army  of  the  United  States,  and  intrusted  with  the  command of  the  North-western  division.  He  was  one  of  the  best  officers in  that  war;  but,  after  achieving  the  battle  of  the  Thames,  and other  victories  in  the  lake  country,  his  military  services  were  con- cluded. Pie  resigned  his  commission,  in  18 14,  in  consec[uence of  a  misunderstanding  with  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  retired  to his  farm  at  North  Pend,  Ohio.  He  served  as  commissioner  in negotiating  Indian  treaties;  and  thi-i  voice  of  a  grateful  people
It  included  the  present  States  of  Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois,  Michi^^an.      Geu- tral  St.  Clair  was  then  governor  of  the  Territory.
t  He  had  also  held  the  office  of  commissioner  of  Indian  affairs,  in  that 1  erritory,  and  had  concluded  no  less  than  thirteen  important  treaties  with  the 'lifferent  tribes.
52  \VILLIAM    HEXRV    HARRISON.
aft<.'nvard  called  him  to  represent  them  in  the  legislature  of  Ohio, and  of  the  nation.  He  was  elected  to  the  Senate  of  the  United States,  in  1824.  In  1828,  he  was  appointed  minister  to  Colom- bia, one  of  the  South  American  Republics.  He  was  recalled,  by President  Jackson,  on  account  of  some  differences  of  opinion respecting  diplomatic  events  in  that  region,  when  he  returned home,  and  again  sought  the  repose  of  private  life.  There  he remained  about  ten  years,  when  he  was  called  forth  to  receive from  the  American  people  the  highest  honor  in  their  gift — the chief  magistracy  of  the  Republic.  He  was  elected  President  of the  United  States  by  an  immense  majority,  and  was  inaugurated on  the  4th  of  March,  1841.  For  more  than  twenty  days  he  bore the  unceasing  clamors  for  office,  with  which  the  ears  of  a  new president  are  always  assailed;  and  then  his  slender  constitution, pressed  by  the  weiglit  of  almost  threescore  and  ten  years,  sud- denly gave  way.  The  excitements  of  his  new  station  increased a  slight  disease  caused  by  a  cold,  and  on  the  4th  of  April,  just one  month  after  the  inauguration  pageant  at  the  presidential mansion,  the  honored  occupant  was  a  corpse.  He  was  succeeded in  office  by  the  vice-president,  John  Tyler.
William  Henry  Hakrlson  (born  9  Feb.,  1773,  Charles  City County,  Virginia),  Ensign  i.  infy,  16  Aug.,  1791;  Lieut,  i.  sub- legion,  rank  from  June,  1792.  Aid-de-camp  to  Maj.-Gen.  Wayne, and  distinguished  in  his  victory  on  the  Miami,  20  Aug.,  1794; — in  I.  infy,  Nov.,  1796;  Capt.,  Ala}-,  1797;  resigned  i  June,  1798. [Secretary  of  North-west  Territory,  June,  1798;  Representative in  Congress  from  Ohio,  1799  to  1800;  Governor  of  Indiana  Ter- ritory, 13  May,  1800  to  1 81 3];  commanded  as  Governor  of  Indi- ana Territory  in  battle  of  'J'ippecanoe,  7  Nov.,  i8ti; — Brigadier General,  22  Aug.,  181  2;  Major-Gcneral,  2  March,  1813,  and  com- manded Western  army;  commanded  in  defence  oi'  Fort  Meigs, April  and  May,  181 3,  and  commanded  in  battle  of  the  Thames, U.C.,  5  Oct.,  1 8 13;  resigned  31  May,  18 14.  Recei\ed  the  "thanks of  Congress,"  of  April  4,  1818,  for  "gallantry  and  good  conduct  in defeating  the  combined  British  and  Indian  forces  under  Maj.-(ien. Proctor,  on  the  Thames,  in  Up.  Canada,  on  the  5  Oct.,  18 13,  caj)- turing  the  British  army,  with  their  baggage,  camp  equipage,  and artillery,"  and  the  presentation  of  a  gold  medal  "emblematical  of this  triumph."'  [Repr.  in  Congress,  18 16  to  181 9; — U.  S.  Senator from  Ohio,  1825  to  1828;  Env.  Extr.  and  Min.  Plenipo.  to  Colum- bia, 24  May,  1828;  President  of  the  United  States,  4  March,  1841, and  died  at  Washington,  D.C.,  4  April,  1841. — Dictio)iary  of  thr Army  of  t lie  United  States.   By  Chas.  K.  ( jardner.   New  York,  1853.
.  -f< '  ■'.
H]-  FORT-WAYXH  MAXUSCRIPT
AN    OLD    WRiTINi;    (LATLLY    FOUND)    CONTAIN  INC.
liidiaii  Speeches
AND    A
Treatise  on  the  Western  huliaiis.
Editf-d  and  Annotatkd
Kv  HIRAM  \V.  BECKWITH,  Danmllk,  III
INTRODUCTORY   CHAPTER.
The  Fort  Wayne  manuscript,  or  rather  that  part  of  it  contain- ing the  Indian  Speeches  dehvered  in  the  two  Councils  held  Sept. 4th  and  Oct.  2d,  181 1,  at  Ft.  Wayne,  Ind.,  and  hitherto  unpub- lished, is  a  missing  link  of  much  interest  and  value  in  the  border history  of  the  Northwest.  To  illustrate  the  place  it  occupies  in the  chain  of  events  and  explain  the  relations  it  sustains  to  them, it  becomes  necessary  to  recur  briefly  to  the  condition  which  the Indian  affairs  in  the  Indiana  and  Illinois  Territories  were  in, shortly  before  and  at  the  time  when  these  Ft.  Wayne  conferences were  held.
About  the  year  1805,  the  peaceful  relations,  estabHshed  by  the treaty  of  Greenville  in  1795,  between  the  white  and  the  red people  became  seriously  disturbed  through  the  conduct  of  two Shawnee  brothers,  '^Jc-cinn-t/iea'''^  and  "Lo-la-wa-chi-ca"  —  "The Loud  Voice",  otherwise  and  better   known   as    ^^ T/ic  PropJiet'\
*  It  i.s  stated  by  Gov.  Harrison  in  his  Memoirs,  edited  by  Moses  Dawson, that  "Te-cum-the"  is  the  Indian  pronunciation  of  the  name;  while  Judge James  Hall,  in  his  "Memoir"  of  Gov.  Harrison,  and  Dr.  Benjamin  Drake,  in his  "Life  of  Tecumshe",  as  lie  spells  the  name,  state  its  meaning  to  be  the "Croucliing  Panther".  The  latter  author  says,  "that  on  assuming  the  sacred office  of  Proi)het,  'Lau-le-was-i-kaw'  changed  his  name  to  'Lens-kwau-ta-wau,' meaning  the  open  door,  because  he  had  undertaken  to  point  out  to  the  Indians the  new  life  which  they  should  pursue."  In  the  text  we  have  followed  the orthography  and  the  interpretation  of  the  name  as  given  by  Gov.  Harrison  at a  time  when  he  was  directly  referring  to  it,  in  connection  with  a  speech  deliv- ered by  the  Prophet  on  the  occasion  of  his  two  weeks'  visit  with  the  Governor at  V'incennes,  in  August,  1808.  The  Prophet  and  Te-cum-the — for  whom the  former  was  merely  the  mouth-piece — avowed  that  his  voice  should  be J»eard,  as  in  lime  it  was,  among  all  the  tribes,  from  the  'gulf  to  the  most northern  lakes  and  westward  to  the  mountains.  Hence  the  significance  of  the riame  Land  Voice.
56    .  .  INTRODUCTORY   CHAPTER.
The  Prophet  claimed  a  mission  from  the  Great  Spirit  to  reform the  manners  of  the  red  people,  and  to  revive  all  those  customs that  had  been  discontinued  by  their  two  common  and  frequent intercourse  with  the  white  peoi)le.  All  the  innovations  in  dress, food,  arms,  and  manners  derived  from  the  whites  were  to  be discarded;  in  reward  for  v/hich  they  were  promised  a  restoration of  all  tlie  comfort  and  happiness  enjoyed  by  their  ancestors,  of which  they  had  so  often  heard  their  old  sages  speak,  on  condition, however,  of  an  implicit  obedience  to  the  will  and  orders  of  the Prophet.  He  pretended  to  foretell  future  events,  declared  him- self invulnerable  to  the  weapons  of  his  enemies,  and  promised like  immunity  to  those  of  his  proselytes  who  would  devote  them- sehes  wholly  to  his  services.
Roving  for  a  while  among  the  surrounding  tribes,  making  a convert  here  and  there,  the  brothers  took  quarters  at  Gen.  Wayne's old  cantonment  at  Greenville,  Ohio,  and  soon  gathered  with  them about  one  hundred  Shawnee  warriors  from  the  several  bands  of that  nation,  living  in  scattered  villages  on  the  head-waters  of  the Au  Glaize,  White  River,  the  Mississinewa,  and  elsev/here,  together with  a  few  followers  recruited  from  other  tribes.  Within  a  few months  the  number  of  Shawnees  were  reduced  by  desertions  to about  forty  or  fifty,  and  the  residue  of  the  Prophet's  followers were  chiefly  composed  of  the  riff-raff  of  other  tribes,  many  of whom  had  lied  for  their  crimes.
The  Prophet's  band  remained  at  Greenville  through  the  years 1806  and  7,  increasing,  the  while,  in  its  number  of  excited,  relig- ious fanatics,  ready,  it  was  feared,  for  any  enterprise  on  which the  Prophet  or  his  brother  might  be  Inclined  to  lead  them,  and great  fears  were  entertained  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  border white  settlements  for  their  own  safety.  Complaints  were  accord- ingly made,  in  re5|)onse  to  which  Capt.  Wm.  \\'ells,  then  Indian agent  at  Fort  Wayne,  sent  Anthony  Shane,  a  halfblood  Shawnee, to  Greenville  with  a  copy  the  President's  letter  contained  in  a communication  from  the  secretary  of  war;  the  substance  of  which was  that  Te-cum-tlie  and  his  party,  being  upon  grounds  lately purchased  by  Gov.  Harrison  from  its  rightful  owners,  should remove  to  some  point  beyond  the  general  boundaries  stipulated
INTRODUCTORY    CHAPTER.  5/
in  the  treaty  of  CTreenviHe  in  1795.  '^'^^  council-fire  being  lighted, Shane  stated  the  object  of  his  mission,  and  invited  the  brothers to  a  conference  at  Fort  Wayne.  ,  ^Vhereupon  Tecnmthe,  without consulting  the  opinions  of  those  around  him,  arose  and  said  to the  messenger:  "Go  back  to  Fort  ^^'ayne,  and  tell  Capt.  Wells that  my  fire  is  kindled  on  the  spot  appointed  by  the  Great  Spirit above;  and  if  he  has  any  communication  to  make  to  me,  he  must <;ome  here!'
The  excitement  increased,  and  in  a  letter  from  Capt.  Wells  to Gov.  Harrison,  of  date  May  25.  1807,  it  was  stated  that,  within  a short  time  then  past,  not  less  than  fifteen  hundred  Indians  had gone  or  returned  through  Ft.  Wayne  in  their  visitations  to  the Prophet  and  Tecumthe  at  Greenville.  And,  in  the  month  of August  of  that  year,  persons  living  in  the  north  and  western  parts of  the  Indiana  Territory,  and  familiar  with  the  state  of  Indian offairs,  estimated  the  number  of  Indians  at  Ft.  Wayne  and  C^reen- ville,  who  were  supposed  to  be  under  the  influence  of  these Shawnee  brothers,  at  seven  or  eight  hundred  men,  most  of  whom were  armed  with  new  rifles,  and  well  provided  with  ammunition, supplied  from  Canada.  T'he  governor  of  Ohio,  being  oflrcially advised  of  these  facts,  took  measures  to  rid  his  State  of  such  a dangerous  assemblage.  Gov.  Harrison,  of  the  Indiana  Territory, also  took  an  active  and  efhcient  part  in  the  common  purpose  to disperse  the   Prophet  and  his  adherents.      The  result  of   these
<  ombined  efforts  Avas,  that  early  in  the  year  1808  the  Propliet  and his  partisans  moved  from  Greenville,  and,  to  the  future  and  very great  annoyance  of  Ciov.  Harrison,  as  well  as  to  all  the  inhabitants
<  laiming  his  protection,  took  up  their  residence  in  the  Indiana IVrritory,   on    the   west   bank   of  the  Wabash,   a   short    distance
below  the  mouth  of  the  Tippecanoe  River,  where  they  established d'lC  village  known  to  fame  as  ^'-  TJie'PropJicfs  town".
Ttrcumthe  and  the  Prophet  claimed  that  the  new  grounds  upon »\hich  they  thus  settled  had  been  granted  to  them  by  the  Potta- ^vatomies  and  Kickapoos;  these  latter,  however,  had  no  title  at •'^■11,  being  only  sfjuattcrs  themselvt-s,  having  years  before,  and  by *^heer  force  of  superior  numbers,  intruded  themselves  into  the domain  of  the  Miamies,  to  whom  all  that  part  of  the  Wabash ^  ountry  rightfully  belonged.
58  INTRODUCTORY    CHAPTER.
The  Propliet  had  Httle  influence  among  the  immediately-adjoin- ing tribes  such  as  the  Miamies,  Delawares,  Shawnees,  and  some of  tlie  Pottawatomies,  whose  chiefs  and  elder  men  knew  he  was an  inipostor,  and  v^^ould  have  nothing  to  do  witli  his  plans,  in  ihe execution  of  which  they  only  foresaw  harm  to  themselves  and their  families.  It  was  with  the  remote  tribes  that  his  fame  was blazoned,  and  to  v.hom  his  miracles  without  number  were  com- municated. The  party  attached  to  him,  relying  on  his  promises of  food  and  raiment  by  divine  interposition,  neglected  to  hunt  or plant,  and  were  often  starving  for  want  of  subsistence,  while reports  v.ere  spread  abroad  that  they  were  enjoying  every  luxury and  ease.  Thus  were  the  upper-lake  Indians,  and  those  between Lake  Michigan  and  the  ^Mississippi,  and  especially  the  Winneba- goes  and  the  Kickapoos  of  the  Illinois  Prairies,  deluded  by  fabu- lous reports,  industriously  circulated  among  them  by  Tecumthe and  other  emissaries  of  the  Propliet.  Tecumthe  combined  in his  character  great  subtility,  cunning,  and  an  indomitable  perse- verance; and  while  his  brother  remained  at  home  he  was  itiner- ating among  the  most  distant  tribes,  and  making  proselytes  to  his and  his  brother's  schemes.  Keeping  himself  and  his  ulterior  aims in  the  background,  it  is  now  known  that  he  was  the  principal means  by  which  the  extravagant  stories  of  his  brother's  super- natural powers  were  propagated.
The  general  discontent  among  the  Indians,  caused  by  the scarcity  of  game,  the  rapidly -advancing  skirmish  line  of  white setdements — the  sure  forerunner  of  a  denser  population — upon their  hunting-grounds,  and,  perhaps,  more  than  all,  the  threatened war  with  Great  Britain,  were  eagerly  seized  upon  by  Tecumthe, and  hastened  the  time  when  he  thought  he  might  come  out  from under  the  shadow  of  the  Prophet,  and  declare  his  long-kept  pur- pose of  foruu'ng  a  confederation  of  all  the  Indian  tribes;  abrogate all  treaties  previously  made  with  the  United  States  relative  to  the cession  of  lands;  drive  the  whites  eastward  and  south  beyond the  Ohio  River,  and  ever  after  hold  the  conquested  territory  as the  common  property  of  the  victors,  with  no  right  of  a  disposal of  any  part  of  it,  except  with  the  given  consent  of  all.  It  was  a revival  of  the  plan  undertaken  by  Pontiac  at  the  conclusion  of
INTRODUCTORY    CHAPTER.  59
the  French-Colonial  War;  and  again  espoused  by  the  confederated Northwestern  tribes  soon  after  tlie'estabhshment  of  peace  between the  United  States  and  Great  Britain  in  1784.'''
Matters  grew  daily  worse  at  the  Prophet's  town,  which  had now  become  the  common  refuge  of  all  the  Indian  vagabonds  in the  country;  horse-thieves  and  pilferers  of  other  property;  wild blades  who  would,  every  now  and  tlien,  surprise  a  pioneer's  cabin, standing  remotely  out  beyond  the  well-defined  lines  of  white settlements,  and  cowardly  murder  the  indwelling  women  and  chil- dren, found  welcome  shelter  at  the  Prophet's  town,  and  a  ready friend  and  paliator  for  their  crimes  in  the  person  of  either  Tecum- the  or  his  brother.  Gov.  Ninian  Edwards,  of  the  Illinois  Terri- tory, made  frequent  complaints  of  depredations  committed  upon his  settlements  along  the  Mississippi,  incited  from  or  by  perpe- trators harbored  at  this  plague-spot  on  the  Wabash.  Inhabitants of  the  lower  Embarrass  and  in  the  neighborhood  oi^  Vincennes could  only  go  about  their  work  with  their  rifles  always  in  hand; and  the  town  itself  was,  time  and  again,  threatened  with  destruc- tion. Indeed,  several  peaceful  Indians  of  the  Delaware  and Piankeshaw  tribes  warned  the  Governor  of  the  great  danger  to themselves  as  well  as  to  the  whites,  and  said  they  intended  to  flee beyond  the  Mississippi  to  escape  the  storm  that  was  threatening from  the  Prophet's  town.
In  tlie  meantime,  Ciov.  Harrison — in  whom  the  people  of  the Indiana  and  Illinois  Territories  had  unbounded  confidence — con- tinued his  unremitting  efforts  to  secure  their  pjeace  and  safety. His  correspondence  with  heads  of  the  departments  at  Washing- ton abundantly  sliows  tliat  during  the  whole  period  covered  by tlie  events  under  consideration  he  kept  the  Government  fully advised  of  the  movements  of  the  Prophet  and  Tecumthe,  and  as often  suggested  the  necessity  of  active  measures  to  arrest  the mischief  they  were  doing.  He  labored  with  a  zeal  then  little ^inderstood,  though  now  fully  appreciated,  and  largely  succeeded «n  keei>ing  the  bulk  of  the  surrounding  tribes  from  the  contamina- tions of  the  Shawnee  brothers,  and  in  this  way  did  much  to  save
'  "He  boa.sted  [through  his  medium,  tlie  Prophet]  that  he  would  follow  the '*:Kjt>tep<>  of  the  great  Pontiac;"  z'/dif  Gov.  Harrison's  Memoirs,
60        *  '  INTRODUCTORY   CHAPTER.  |
the  settlements  intrusted  to  his  care  from  the  terrible  consequences
that  otherwise  vrould  have  followed.     He  sent  frequent  messen-  |
gers  to   the   ^Liamis   and   Pottawatomies,   demanding   that    they
should  drive  the  Prophet  and  his  horde  away  from  the  domain  |
claimed  by  these  two  tribes;  but  they,  in   their  ignorance  and
terror  at  the  threats  of  the   Prophet,  did  not  dare  to  resort  to  |
force.     They  could  only  look  on  silently  and  abide  the  result  oi
events.     No  threats  or  persuasions  would  induce  the  Prophet  to
leave,  who,   with  his  brother,   now  additionally  stimulated  with  ';
words  of  encouragement  of  British- Canadian  agents,  threatened
open  war.    The  Governor  again  sent  a  messenger  to  the  Prophet's  .
town,   to  whom  Tecumthe  denied  an  intention  of  making  war,  t
but  most  solemnly  declared  that  it  vras  not  possible  to  remain
friends  of  the  United  States,  unless  they  would  abandon  all  idea  /•
of  making  settlements  furtlier  to  the  north  and  westward.      "The  h
Great  vSpirit,"  said  he,  "gave  this  great  island  to  his  red  children;  .'■;
he  placed  the  whites  on  the  other  side  of  the  big  water;  they         •  I
were  not  contented  with  tlieir  own,  but  came  to  take  ours  from  |
us.     They  have  driven  us  from  the  sea  to  the  lakes:  we  can  go  |
no  further.     They  have  taken  upon  themselves  to  say  this  tract  ?'
belongs  to  the  Miamis,  this  to  the  Delawares.  etc.;  but  the  Ch-eat  *;
...  ?
Spirit  intended  it  as  the  common  property  of  all.     Our  P^ather  j
[Gov.    Harrison]   tells   us   that   we   have   no   business   upon   the  1
Wabash,   that  the  land  belongs  to  other  tribes;   but  the  Great
Spirit  ordered  us  to  come  here,  and  here  we  will  stay."  |
Seemingly  the  general   government  did   not  compreliend   the
situation,  or  was  indifferent  to  the  results  that  would  follow  from
the  course  to  which  aftairs  in  the  western  territories  were  rapidly
drifting.     At  last  matters  culminated,  on  the  31st  of  July,  iSii,  |
when  a  public  meeting  was  called  at  Vincennes,  at  which  it  was  ^
resolved,  in  substance,  that  no  security  to  life  and  property  could
be  had  other  than  by  breaking  up  the  combination  of  the  Shawnee  -;
Prophet  on  the  Wabash;  that 'it  was  impolitic  and  injurious  to  j
the  inhabitants  of  the  United  States  as  to  those  of  the  Indiana  ^
Territory  to  permit  a  formidable  banditti,  constantly  increasing  in  r
numbers,  to  occupy  a  position  which  enables  them  to  strike  the  v
border  settlements  without  the  least  warning;  that  the  combina-  |
INTRODUCTORY    CHAPTER.  6 I
tion  headed  by  the  Shawnee  Prophet  was  a  British  scheme,  and that  the  latter's  agents  constantly  inciting  the  Indians  to  hostih- ties  against  the  United  States.  A  committee,  consisting  of  lead- ing citizens,  among  whom  was  the  venerable  F'rancis  Vigo,  was selected  to  prepare  an  address  to  President  James  Madison, embodying  the  resolutions  passed  at  the  meeting.  The  address was  forwarded.  The  Government,  it  appears,  had  anticipated the  request;  for  the  secretarv  of  war,  in  two  letters  addressed, July  17th  and  July  20th,  181 1,  respectively,  to  Gov.  Harrison, advised  him  that  the  4th  Regiment,  U.  S.  Infantry,  with  a  com- pany of  riflemen,  making  in  all  five  hundred  men,  under  command of  Col.  John  P.  Boyd,*  had  been  ordered  forward  from  Pittsburg, and  were  to  be  at  the  disposal  of  the  Governor,  with  the  precau- tionary restriction,  however,  that  the  force  was  not  to  be  used  in the  suppression  of  the  banditti  under  the  Prophet,  "unless  such a  course  should  be  rendered  absolutely  necessary,  as  circumstances at  that  juncture  rendered  it  especially  desirable  to  the  President that  hostilities  (of  any  kind,  or  to  any  degree  not  indispensably required)  should  be  avoided."
The  Governor,  having  his  plans  matured,  his  militia  and  other troops  in  hand,  once  more  prepared  a  speech,  addressed  to  the several  Indian  tribes,  calling  upon  them  to  disperse  the  Prophet's band  and  calling  upon  its  members  to  immediately  return  to  their respective  tribes;  recjuiring  from  the  Miamis  an  absolute  disavowal of  all  connection  with  the  Prophet,  and,  they  being  the  owners  of the  land  he  occupied,  to  prevail  upon  them  to  express  to  him their  disapproval  of  the  Prophet  and  his  adherents  from  longer remaining  there.  One  of  these  speeches  was  taken  to  Fort ^\'ayne  by  Capt.  Tousant  Dubois,  and  its  explanation  to  the  tribes assembled  there  in  council  called  out  tire  speeches  of  September
*  John  P.  lioyd,  born  in  (768;  appointed  from  Massachusetts  [was  in  the Mahratta  service  in  the  J',a^t  Indies;  rose  to  the  rank  of  commander  of  10,000 cavahy]  colonel  4th  Infantry,  7  Oct.,  1 80S;  "commanded  a  brigade  in  Battle '■'f  Tippecanoe  and  dislini^aished  himself,  7  Nov.,  1811;  brigadier-general, 2^J  Aug.,  1812;  led  hi.  brigade  in  the  capture  of  Ft.  George.  U.  C,  27  May, '•"^13;  disbanded,  15  June,  1815.  Afterward  naval  officer  of  Tort  of  Boston, ''ied  at  Boston,  Mas-.,  4  Oct.,  1830.— Gakd.xkk.
.()
62  .  INTRODUCTORV   CHAPTER.
4th  and  October  3d,  iSii,  found  in  the  Ft  ^V\lyne  manuscript.*
The  prelude  of  the  war  of  1812  was  fairly  upon  us,  although the  formal  declaration  of  it  was  made  in  the  following  June.
The  portion  of  the  Ft.  Wayne  manuscript  following  the  Indian speeches  shows  the  author  of  it  to  have  been  a  well-informed  and candid  writer.  His  statements  of  facts,  dates,  names,  etc.,  har- monize in  the  main  ^^•ith  creditable  works  since  in  print— the  most notable  variance  from  them  being  his  account  as  to  the  number of  Indians  engaged  at  the  battle  of  Tippecanoe.  He  must  have had  an  intimate  and  long  acquaintance  with  the  Indians;  and  the information  preserved  in  his  manuscript  as  coming  to  his  knowl- edge from  them  as  to  their  military  engagements  with  the  whites, is,  for  the  most  part,  not  only  new,  but  valuable  historical  matter. Among  the  authorities  consulted  or  drawn  upon  in  the  colla- tion of  the  preface  and  notes,  as  well,  also,  the  foot-notes  running through  the  printed  text  of  the  Ft.  Wayne  manuscript,  the  follow- ing may  be  named:  "The  American  State  Papers";  "U.  S. Treaties  with  the  Indian  Tribes";  "Life  of  Tecumshe'"',  by  Dr. Benj.  Drake;  Harvey's  "Shawnee  Indians";  Hall  &  McKinney's "History  N.  A.  Indians";  "History  of  Ohio",  by  Caleb  Atwater; Howe's  "Ohio  Historical  Collections";  "History  of  Indiana", by  the  late  John  B.  r,)illon;  "Historical  Notes  of  the  Northwest"^
*  It  may  be  added  tiiat  tliese  missives  had  no  more  effect  in  arresting  the climax  than  if  the  paper  on  which  they  were  scribed  had  been  thrown  upon the  sea.  The  frenzied  mob  at  the  mouth  of  the  Tippecanoe  could  hardly await  the  advancing  tread  of  Gov.  Harrison's  army.  The  Governor,  althougii complained  of  by  .some  of  his  officers  for  not  assaulting  the  town  upon  sight, the  soldiers  being  eager  for  battle,  kej^t  rigidly  within  the  letter  and  spirit  of his  instructions,  and  declined  a  resort  to  force  until  every  effort  toward  a  peace- ful solution  of  difficulties  had  been  exhausted.  With  the  power  to  compel  an obedience  to  his  orders,  he  again  demanded  the  occupants  of  the  village  to disperse.  It  l)eing  nearly  night,  a  suspension  of  hostilities  was  agreed  to, with  a  view  to  a  friendly  conference  on  the  following  morning.  The  Prophet, fearing  tlie  issue,  or  supposing  he  could  effect  a  surprise,  set  his  maddened warriors  upon  the  Governor's  encampment,  under  cover  of  darkness,  made more  dense  by  a  drizzling  rain,  that  fell  dank  and  chill  upon  the  silent  though wakeful  army,  on  the  morning  of  November  7,  181 1.  A  terrible  defeat,  the burning  of  the  village,  and  the  loss  of  the  Prophet's  power,  was  the  result  of his  rash  act.
INTRODUCTORY    CHAPTER.  63
hv  the  same  author — both  works  being  of  the  highest  historical value  for  their  accuracy  of  statement;  Judge  John  Law's  "History of  Vincennes"';  Mann  Butlers  "History  of  Kentucky'';  "History of  the  War  [of  181 2],  and  Views  of  the  Campaigns  of  the  North- western Army'"',  by  Samuel  R.  Brown;  "History  of  the  Late  War in  the  Western  Country"',  by  Capt.  Robt.  M'Affe;  "Memoirs  of Oen.  Harrison",  by  Moses  Dawson;  "islemoir  of  Gen.  Harrison", by  Judge  James  Hall;  "Life  of  Gov.  Ninian  Edwards"  [of  Illi- nois"]; The  Indian  Vocabularies  respectively  of  Col.  John  John- son; Prof  Edwin  James;  Thos.  L.  jNIcKenney  (of  the  Indian Department);  Henry  R.  Schoolcraft;  Capt.  John  Carver;  Alex- ander McKenzie;  David  Zeisbergefs  and  Edward  E.  Wilson's several  Grammars  and  Dictionaries  of  the  Delaware  and  O'Jebway languages;  Albert  Gallatin's  "Synopsis  of  the  Indian  Tribes  of North  America".  All  which  are  acknowledged  as  sources  of original  and  reliable  information.
■  f^^The  manuscript  from  which  the  following  pages were  set  was  received  in  April,  1882,  from  S.  A.  Gibson, superintendent  of  the  Kalamazoo  Paper  Company,  Kala- mazoo, Mich.,  and  was  written  in  the  same  hand  at different  times,  on  twenty-eight  pages  of  foolscap  paper, apparently  as  old  as  the  dates  thereon.  Each  page  has an  anchor  water-mark.  Mr.  Gibson  took  these  pages, evidently  torn  from  a  book,  from  a  large  bundle  of  simi- lar papers  that  had  been  recently  received  at  the  mills from   Fort  Wayne,  Ind. — F.
Speeches  delivered  in  General  Council,  at  Fort  Wayne,
on  the  4th  day  of  September,  181 1,  by  the  different  Chiefs  of the  Miamie  Tribe  of  Indians,  in  Answer  to  a  Speech  from  his Excellency,  Wm.  H.  Harrison,  Governor  of  Indiana  Territory.
SPEECH   OF   LAPRUSIEUR,"    ORATOR    FOR   THE   WEAS,    A BRANCH    OF    THE    MIA^^E    TRIBE    OF    INDIANS.
WiLLiA^r  H,  Harrison,  Governor  of  Indiana  Territory,  Listen  to WHAT  I  have  to  Say:
You  now  tell  us  that  we  are  on  a  wrong  road,  a  road  that  will lead  us  to  destruction.  You  are  deceived.  When  1  was  walking along,  I  heard  you  speak  respecting  the  Shawanoe  (Prophet). You  said  we  were  of  his  party.  I  hold  you  and  the  Shawanoe both  by  the  hand;  I  hold  him  slack.  You  have  both  told  me one  thing:  that  if  I  would  adhere  to  you,  that  my  people  (the women  and  children)  would  be  happy.  The  hearts  of  the  Mia- mies  are  good.  The  Cireat  Spirit  has  placed  them  on  the  choicest spot  of  ground;  and  we  are  now  anxiously  waiting  to  see  which of  you  tells  the  truth.
Now,  Father,  for  the  first  time  your  eyes  are  open.     When  you
*  LePousser  [French],  A-she-non-qua  in  the  Miami  dialect,  signifying  the Speech  Maker,  the  Persuader,  or  Talker.  At  the  Treaty,  held  October  26, iSc^,  at  Vincennes,  this  chief's  name  is  signed  Lapousier  [the  article  La  and the  v/ord  Pousser  run  together  as  in  the  Ft.  Wayne  manuscript],  while  at  the '•Treaty  of  Peace  and  J'^iendship,"  between  the  U.  S.  and  the  Miamis  and other  hostile  tribes  in  the  war  of  1812,  executed  at  Greenville,  Ohio,  July  22, i''>i4,  his  name  appears  thus,  "La-passiere  or  A-she-non-qua."  F/V/,?" His- tory of  the  War?  [of  1812],  by  Sam'l  R.  Brown;  vol.  ii;  ^Vppendix,  where d:e  text  of  the  Treaty  is  supplemented  with  the  signers'  names  interpreted  and carefully  spaced  so  as  to  preserve  the  correct  sound  in  their  pronunciation.
1  lie  Weas,  for  whom  A-she-non-qua  was  a  leading  orator,  were  a  band  of t'je  Miami  tribe  having  their  principal  village  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Wabash, hclow  Lafayette,  and  above  Attica,  Indiana,  and  known  in  early  history  as Ouitanon,  or  the  Wea-town.  The  name  is  yet  preserved,  and  the  identity  of the  ncigliborhood  retained,  in  its  bestowal  upon  "  Wea-Prairie"  and  "  Wea- Creek."     ^'?//f  Chamberlain's  Indiana  Gazetteer,
5
66  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT    FORT    WAYNE.
cast  them  on  your  children  you  see  they  are  poor;  some  of  them are  even  destitute  of  the  necessaries  of  hfe.  We  want  ammuni- tion to  support  our  women  and  children;  this  has  compelled  us to  undertake  our  present  journey.
Father,  we  have  not  let  you  go;  we  yet  hold  you  by  the  hand; nor  do  we  hold  the  hand  of  the  Prophet  with  a  view  to  injure you.  I  therefore  tell  you  that  you  are  not  correct  when  you supposed  we  joined  hands  with  the  Prophet  to  injure  you. Father,  I  listened  to  you  a  few  days  ago,  when  you  pointed  out to  me  the  depredations  of  murder  committed  by  the  Indians  on the  Mississippi.  I  told  you  that  I  and  my  people  had  no  wish to  join  in  acts  of  that  kind.  I  told  you  that  we  both  loved  our people,  and  that  it  gives  us  pleasure  when  we  see  them  standing around  us;  that  we  should  deprive  ourselves  of  this  pleasure  if we  commenced  a  war  Avith  each  other,  as  a  war  would  be  the destruction  of  both  parties.  You  always  told  me  that  our  great Father,  the  President  of  the  United  States,  has  placed  you  here for  good  purposes;  that  his  heart  is  good  toward  his  red  children  I How  then  does  it  happen  that  our  Father's  heart  is  changed toward  his  red  children.
Father,  you  have  called  upon  us  to  fulfil  the  Treaty  of  Green- ville.'' In  that  treaty  it  is  stipulated  that  we  should  give  informa- tion if  we  knew  of  any  hostile  design  of  a  foreign  power  against each  other.  I  now  tell  you  that  no  information  from  any  quarter has  reached  our  ears  to  injure  any  of  your  people  (except  from yourself).     You  have  told  us  that  the  thunder  begins  to  roll.
Father,  your  speech  has  overtaken  us  here.  We  have  heard  it, it  has  not  scared  us;  we  are  not  afraid  of  what  you  say.  We  are going  on  to  that  country  which  has  been  frequented  by  Tecumseh, and  we  shall  be   able  to   know,   in   the  course  of  our  journey,
*  The  Treaty  of  Greenville,  concluded  August  3d,  1795,  at  Fort  Greenville [upon  the  site  of  Greenville,  County-seat  of  Darke  Co.,  Ohio],  was  the  finale of  a  bitter  warfare  waged  by  the  Indians  against  the  encroaching  advances  of civilized  society  upon  their  hunting-grounds.  The  struggle  began  before  the Revolutionary  War  had  ended,  and  closed  with  the  memorable  victory  of Gen.  Wayne  over  the  confedtraLcd  tribes  of  the  [then]  Northwest  Territory, at  the  foot  of  Maumee  Rapids  [near  South  Toledo,  Ohio],  upon  th^.-  20th  of August,  1784.  No  longer  able  to  contend,  the  Sachams  and  war-chiefs  of the  Wyanrlots,  Delawares,  Shav/ane<?s,  Ottawas,  Chippewas,  Pottawaloinies, Miamis,  Kickapoos,  etc.,  etc.,  met  Gen.  Wayne  in  council  at  Greenville,  and executed  the  Treaty;  containing,  among  other  matters,  in  its  9th  article,  the stipulation  to  which  A-she-non-qua  here  refers  in  reply  to  Gov.  Harrison's complaints  that  it  had  not  been  enforced  against  the  malcontents  assembled  at,. or  gathering  from  every  direction  to,  the  "Prophet's  Town."
SPEECH    OF    LArRUSIEUR.        '     •■  v   '  v         ^j
whether  he  has  told  us  Hes  or  not:  that  all  the  Indians  are  of  the same  opinion  that  he  is;  but  when  we  return,  we  shall  be  able  to inform  you  whether  what  Tecumseh  has  told  us  be  true  or  not.
Now,  Father,  you  have  heard  what  I  have  to  say;  you  will hear  it  well  what  comes  from  me.
Father,  you  have  told  me  twice  you  were  angry  with  me.  I went  to  see  you  with  my  warriors  with  me  when  we  v\ere  sitting face  to  face,  and  toes  to  toes;  you  told  me  that  the  Indians. on the  Mississip}>i  had  struck  your  people,  and  I  said  nothing  to  you. Vou  tell  us  that  you  sent  a  messenger  after  us;  that  we  insulted your  messenger,  yourself,  and  our  great  Father,  lliis  is  twice you  have  said  }ou  were  angry  with  us  1  We  have  looked  for  the cause,  but  can  find  none.
Father,  we,  the  Miamies,  are  not  a  people  that  are  passionate: we  are  not  so  easily  made  angry  as  it  appears  you  are  I  Our hearts  are  as  heavy  as  the  earth!  Our  minds  are  not  easily  irri- tated. We  don"t  tell  people  we  are  angry  with  them  for  light causes;  we  are  afraid  if  we  did  fly  in  a  passion  for  no  cause  we should  make  oursehes  contemptible  in  the  eyes  of  others.  We therefore  hope  you  will  no  more  say  you  are  angry  with  us,  lest you  should  make  yourself  contemptible  to  others.  We  have  told you  we  would  not  get  angry  for  light  causes.  \\t  have  our  eyes on  our  lands  on  the  Wabash,  with  a  strong  determination  to defend  our  rights,  let  them  be  invaded  from  what  quarter  they may.  When  our  best  interests  are  in\aded,  we  will  defend  them to  a  man,  and  be  angry  but  once.
Father,  now  consider  what  your  children,  the  Miamies,  have said  to  you.  You  have  offered  the  war-club  to  us ;  you  have  laid at  our  feet  and  told  us  we  might  pick  it  up,  if  we  chosed.  We have  refused  to  do  so;  and  we  hope  that  this  circumstance  will prove  to  you  that  we  are  people  of  good  hearts.  We  hope, ^alher,  you  will  not  ]>e  angry  any  more  with  us,  we  will  not  be angry  with  you.     ^rhis  is  all  I  have  to  say  to  you  at  present.*
When  considered  with  reference  to  the  guarded  manner  in  wliich  the
•  iKlian  is  accustomed  to  avow  hostile  purposes,  A-she-non-cjua's  speech  is  a notable  specimen  of  defiant  oratory.  Firy-  and  bold,  it  reflects  the  feelings and  desperate  purposes  of  I'e-cum-the  and  })is  deluded  followers,  and  is  in angular  contrast  witli  tlie  utterances  of  Little  Turtle  and  other  speakers,  who, with  cooler  heads,  foresaw  the  calamity  that  would  come  upon  their  people  in *ne  end,  if  the  threatened  war  was  precipitated.  Gov.  Harrison,  in  an  official setter  dated  from  Vincennes,  .September  17,  iSii,  referring  to  this  council, says:     "•*     *     *     succeeded  in  getting  the  chiefs  together  at  Fort  Wayne,
•  nough  he  found  them  all  preparing  to  go  to  Maiden.     [Amherstburgh,  Canada,
68  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT   FORT   WAYNPl
SPEECH   OF    SILVER    HEELS,    xV    MASSASSINWAY    CHIEF/-'
He  informed  his  people  tliat  he  conceived  it  greatly  to  the interest  of  his  nation  that  a  decisive  answer  should  be  given  to their  great  Father's  speech;  that  he  had  asked  for  it,  and  he  was entitled  to  receive  it;  that  for  himself  he  had  always  detested  the Prophet  and  his  party;  and  that  the  interest  of  their  nation required  that  the  ^Iiamies  should  have  no  connexion  with  him; that  in  case  a  misunderstanding  should  take  place  between  the United  States  and  the  Prophet,  it  is  the  interest  of  our  nation  to remain  neutral,  and  hold  our  Father  by' the  hand.  My  chiefs  and warriors  now  present,  I  hope  this  will  be  the  answer  that  you  will send  to  our  great  Father,  the  President  of  the  United  States.
near  the  mouth  of  Detroit  River,  in  the  upper  part  of  which  village  v.as  Fort Maiden,  under  whose  protecting  guns  most  of  the  vessels  for  the  British upper-lake  service  were  built,  and  the  principal  depot  from  which  supplies  for the  fur-trade  and  presents  to  the  Indians  were  distributed.]  The  result  of  the council  discovered  that  the  whole  tribes — including  the  Weas  and  Eel  Rivers, for  they  are  all  Miamis — were  about  equally  divided  in  favor  of  the  Prophet and  the  United  States."  "La-pousier,  the  Wea  chief,  whom  I  before  men- tioned to  you  as  being  seduced  by  the  Prophet,  was  repeatedly  asked  by  *  *  * [Capt.  Dubois]  what  land  it  was  that  he  determined  to  defend  with  his  blood; whether  it  was  that  which  was  ceeded  by  the  late  treaty  [of  September  30, 1809,  whereby  the  Indians  had  yielded  their  claim  to  three  several  large  bodies of  land  in  Indiana  and  Eastern  Illinois]  or  not,  but  he  would  give  no  answer. *  *  *  reports  that  all  the  Indians  of  the  Wabash  have  been,  or  now  are,  on a  vi.-it  to  the  British  agents  at  Maiden.  Pie  has  never  known  one-fourth  as jnany  goods  given  to  the  Indians  as  they  are  now"  receiving,  etc.
*  On  the  Miss-iss-sin-e-wa  River,  commencing  at  its  mouth  near  Peru, Indiana,  and  extending  up  the  stream  a  number  of  miles,  were,  at  intervals, several  Miami  villages,  over  one  of  which  Silver  Heels  was  a  presiding  chief. On  the  14th  of  December,  1812,  a  mounted  expedition  of  600  men,  commanded by  Col.  John  B.  Campbell,  of  the  19th  Regiment,  L^.  S.  Infantry,  left  Day- ton, Ohio,  to  destroy  these  towns;  three  of  which  he  burned,  and  destroyed a  large  amount  of  other  property,  including  many  horses  and  cattle.  Eight warriors  were  killed,  and  forty-two  prisoners,  counting  women  and  children taken.  The  emergency  of  the  hour  fully  justified  Gov.  Harrison  in  ordering this  movement.  He  especially  requested  Col.  Campbell  to  spare  the  lives  of Silver  HecF,  the  White  Loon  (and  other  chiefs  whom  he  name.->),  "wliohad undeviatiiigly  exerted  tlu;m-.elves  to  keep  their  warriors  quiet  and  to  preserve their  friendly  relations  with  us."  T/V/f  Gov.  Harrison's  instructions  to  Col.  C. and  the  latter 's  official  report  to  the  former.
I
ADDRESSES   OF    OSEEMIT   AND   CHARLEY.  69
ADDRESS    OF   OSEEMFf,    A    PUTTAWATAMIE   CHIEF.*
I  do  not  want  what  I  am  now  going  to  say  to  be  written  down; but  I  think  it  is  the  interest  of  my  nation  that  I  should  make some  few  observations.  It  appears  to  me  that  some  of  my younger  brothers,  residing  on  the  Wabasli,  have  got  in  a  wrong road;  that  our  Father  has  told  them  of  it,  and  it  is  not  too  late for  them  to  return.  We,  the  Puttawatamie  chiefs,  have  told  our young  men  not  to  listen  to  the  Prophet,  but,  notwithstanding, some  of  them  were  foolish  enough  to  believe  what  he  said.
ADDRESS   OF    CHARLEY,    AN    EEL-RIYER   CHIEF.f
Laprusieure  has  come  forward  and  made  a  speech,  without consulting  or  knowiug  the  opinion  of  the  Indians,  which  I  con- ceive to  be  very  improper.
*  At  the  Treaty  of  Fort  ^Vayne,  concluded  September  30,  1809,  this  chief i~  designated  as  "O^semeet,  brother  to  Five  Medals";  while  his  name  appears lo  the  great  Treaty  signed  at  Chicago,  August  29,  182 1,  as  "Os-see-meet. " The  name  is  probably  derived  from,  or  is  a  corruption  of,  the  word  "Osh-e- may-un",  ;>.,  younger  brother,  and  expressive  of  the  idea  that  his  claims  to consideration  were  because  of  this  relationship  to  the  "Five  Medals",  who was  a  noted  sacham  and  warrior.      See  note  to  the  latter's  speech,  p.  73.
t  A  chief  of  that  subdivision  of  the  Miamis  who  were  called  Eel-Rivers 'and  Eel-Creeks),  for  the  reason  that  their  ancient  and  principal  village — known  by  the  Indians  as  Ke-na-pa-com-a-qua,  to  the  early  French  writers  as I-'Anguille  [the  Eel],  and  to  the  Americans  as  the  "Eel-River  Town  " — was >ituated  on  this  stream,  some  six  miles  above  its  confluence  with  the  \Yabash at  Logansport,  Ind.  However,  it  is  evident,  from  Gov.  Harrison's  instruc- tions to  Col.  Campbell,  already  referred  to,  that  Charley  lived  in  one  of  tiie villages  on  the  Miss-iss-sin-e-wa,  which  Col.  Campbell  was  ordered  to  destroy; f'^r  among  those  whose  lives  were  to  be  saved  is  named  that  of  "  Charley,  the principal  of  the  Eel-River  Tribe."  This  chief  figures  at  several  of  the  treaties, on  behalf  of  his  tribe,  both  before  and  after  the  war  of  1812,  as  "  Ka-Tun-ga", "Ke-tan-ga"  (with  the  addition  of  "Charley");  and,  in  .some  instances,  as vniply  Charley.  His  aboriginal  name — the  signification  of  which  is  nowhere -iven— appears  distilled  through  uneducated  P>ench  or  American  interpreters, •'f  written  down  by  careless  secretaries,  and  is  neither  Indian,  French,  or ^-n.;li,h,  but  savors  of  the  corruption  of  all.-..
His  people  were  swept  over  to  the  British  by  the  current  of  events  imme- 'liately  follov.ing  Gen.  Hull's  surrender  of  Detroit,  and  which  carried  with  it Nearly  all  the  otlier  Northwestern  tribes.  The  failure  of  the  attack  upon  Fort n.irrison,  near  '1  erre  Haute,  Ind.,  September  4,  1812,  and  upon  I'ort  Wayne '-^rly  in  this  month,   together  with  the  energy  Gov.    Harrison  displayed  in
JO  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT    FORT    WAVNE.
SPEECH    OF    TITTLE   TURTLE,    A    MIAMIE    CHIEF.''" Governor  Harrison  :
Father,  your  speech  by  Mr.  Dubois  was  commuiiicated  to  us
organiziag  the  militia  of  Indiana,  Oliio,  and  Kentucky,  all  ablate  with  enthu- siasm, to  recover  the  prestige  and  territory  lost  by  the  unexplainable  conduct of  Gen.  Hull  at  Detroit,  thoroughly  alarmed  those  of  the  Miamis  who  had taken  sides  with  Te-cum-the  and  the  British.  Accordingly  we  learn,  from  an official  letter  of  Gov.  Harrison,  dated  Franklinton,  O.,  October  13,  1812, that:  "Before  I  left  St.  Mary's  for  Defiance,  some  Miamis  had  arrived,  7'ia Fort  "Wayne,  with  a  flag  and  a  message  from  their  chiefs,  begging  for  peace. I  had  no  time  then  to  listen  to  their  speech,  and,  on  my  return  here,  I  found the  Owl  [a  distinguished  chief,  who  had  long  been  a  confidential  friend  of  the Governor],  Charley,  the  Eel- River  chief,  the  Turtle's  son,  and  several  others who  had  joined  theni.  They  came  prepared  to  palliate  or  deny  the  liostility of  their  tribe,  as  one  or  the  other  might  best  suit  their  purpose.      *     *      "'  "
Charley  survived  the  war,  and  was  living  as  late  as  October  6,  I  Si  8,  when he,  with  other  "chiefs  and  warriors  of  the  Miami  nation  of  Indians",  executed the  Treaty  of  St.  Mary's;  and  he  was  dead  before  October  23,  1826,  when,  at the  treaty  held  at  the  mouth  C)f  tlie  Miss-iss-sin-e-wa,  a  reservation  of  "five sections  of  land,  above  the  oLi  village  on  the  north  side  of  Eel  River,"  was made  in  favor  of  his  son  "Little  Charley".  Vuh'  Indian  Treaties  with  the United  States.
*  Misch-e-can-o-quoh,  or  the  Little  Turtle,  agreeably  to  the  best  received authorities,  "was  of  mixed  origin" — his  mother  being  a  Mohegan  woman  and his  father  a  Miami  chief — born  about  the  year  1747,  at  the  latter's  village  on the  upper  waters  of  Eel  River,  some  twenty  miles  west  of  Ft.  Wayne.  He planned  and  won  decisive  victories  in  the  two  engagements  against  detachments of  Gen.  Harmer's  army,  near  Ft.  Wayne,  in  October,  1790;  was  conspicuous as  the  leader  in  the  attack,  on  tlie  morning  of  November  4,  1791,  upon  the forces  of  Gov.  St.  Clair,  that  resulted  in  the  terrible  di-aster  known  in  history as  "St,  Clair's  Defeat",  and  which  was  without  a  parallel  in  Indian  warfare until  the  disastrous  engagement  of  Gen.  Custer,  on  the  Little  Big-Horn  River of  the  Upper  Missouri,  He  was  also  in  the  action  of  June  30,  1794,  in  the severe  attack  upon  Major  Mc^Lahon's  escort  of  ninety  rillemen  and  fifty dragoons,  under  the  walls  of  "  P'ort  Recovery",  a  military  post  erected  in December,  1793,  upon  the  ground  where  St.  Clair  had  been  defeated.  Satis- fied that  the  Indian  confederation  cojald  not  successfully  contend  with  Gen. Wayne,  he  advised  them  to  listen  to  the  hitter's  overtures  for  peace.  Over- ruled in  this,  lead  his  own  warriors  in  the  battle  of  August  20,  1794,  knov»n as  the  "Battle  of  the  Fallen  Timbers",  in  which  Gen.  Wayne  achieved  a decisive  victory.  From  this  time  forward,  the  Little  Turtle  was  the  open  ard of  the  United  States.      He  would  before  this  have  Ijrokeii  av.ay
SPEECH   OF    LITTLE    TURTLE.  ,  7 1
yesterday.*  Father,  your  children,  the  Miamies  of  the  Wabash, are  all  glad  of  what  you  say.  These  are  the  sentiments  of  the Indians:
Father,  you  have  asked  us  whether  we  are  prepared  to  take part  with  the  Prophet,  or  still  hold  you  fast  by  the  hand.  This question  causes  us  to  believe  that  a  misunderstanding  has  taken place  between  you  and  some  of  our  people  that  have  visited  you lately;  it  also  appears  that  you  have  made  known  your  intentions to  the  Puttawatamies,  respecting  the  Prophet.  You  have  told  the PuttaA\atamies   and    other    Indians    residing   on    the   Wabash   to
from  the  malign  influence  operating  from  Canada  through  its  agents  and  traders, but  he  was  powerless  to  carry  his  people  with  him  until  after  they  had  suffered serious  reverses.
At  the  Treaty  of  Greenville,  he  shone  as  the  brightest  light  in  the  assembled orators,  gathered  at  this  great  council-fire  from  the  entire  Northwest,  to  plead the  cause  of  their  tribes  and  of  their  starving  women  and  children.
After  the  conclusion  of  peace.  Little  Turtle  resided  at  his  village,  where  the Government  had  built  him  a  comfortable  house.  "  He  took,"  says  Gov.  Har- rison, "great  interest  in  everything  that  appertained  to  civilized  life,  and  pos- sessed a  mind  capable  of  understanding  their  advantages,  in  a  degree  far superior  to  any  other  Indian."  In  his  cliaracter  he  combined,  in  an  eminent degree,  the  qualities  of  the  military  strategist,  the  wily  diplomat,  the  orator, and  tiie  philosopher,  winning  distinction  in  all.
He  died  of  gout,  July  14,  1812,  on  the  side  of  the  St.  Marys  River,  opposite Ft.  Wayne,  in  the  orchard  yard  of  his  son-in-law,  Capt.  Wm.  Wells,  from whose  house,  at  his  own  request,  he  had  been  removed  to  the  open  air.  He was  buried  upon  the  spot  with  military  honors,  by  the  troops  of  the  garrison, and  with  his  remains  were  deposited  the  sword  and  large  silver  medal  pre- sented by  President  Washington,  and  his  other  war  implements  and  ornaments. VUe  "History  of  the  ^^'ar";  "Memoirs  of  Gen.  Harrison";  IJrice's  lort Wayne;  etc.,  etc.
*  Capt.  Toussant  Dubois,  of  an  ancient  family  of  Vinccnnes,  near  which  he a-Lo  resided.  An  Indian  trader,  and  for  many  years  a  confidential  messenger and  spy  for  Gov.  Harrison,  who  reposed  great  confidence  in  his  energy,  fidelity, and  intelligence.  As  captain  of  a  company  of  spies  and  guides,  he  rendered conspicuous  services  in  the  Tippecanoe  campaign  of  October  and  November, I'^ii.  He  became  a  large  owner  of  lands  on  the  Embarrass  River,  within  the present  limits  of  Lawrence  County,  Illinw^  as  assignee  of  original  claimants under  grants  reserved  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  Vincennes.  Vide  ll^ui- ^n's  Memoirs;  Dillon'.-,  Indiana;  American  State  Papers,  etc.  The  late  Jesse K.  I  Dubois,  long  .State  treasurer  of  Illinois,  and  well  known  throughout  the ^'ate  for  his  genial  and  sterling  qualities,  was  a  descendant  of  the  subject  of Ihi-^  note.
( "'
^2  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT    FORT   WAYNE.
leave  him:  you  have  told  the  ]\Iiamies  the  same;  these  are  things that  surprise  us.  The  transactions  which  took  place  between  the Indians  and  white  people  at  Greenville  are  yet  fresh  in  our  minds. At  that  place,  we  told  each  other  that  we  would  in  future  be friends,  doing  all  the  good  we  could  to  each  other,  and  raise  our children  in  peace  and  quietness.  These  are  yet  the  sentiments of  your  children,  the  ]Mianiies.
Father,  you  have  told  us  you  would  draw  a  line;-  that  your children  should  stand  on  one  side  and  the  Prophet  on  the  other. We,  the  Miamies,  wish,  to  be  consideied  in  the  same  light  by you,  as  we  were  at  the  treaty  of  Greenville,  holding  fast  to  that treaty  which  united  us,  Miamies  and  Puttawatamies,  to  the  United States.
Father,  listen  to  what  I  have  to  say:  it  is  our  request  that  you pay  particular  attention  to  it:  We  pray  you  not  to  bloody  our ground,  if  you  can  avoid  it.  In  the  first  instance,  let  the  Prophet be  requested,  in  mild  terms,  to  comply  with  your  wishes;  and avoid,  if  possible,  the  spilling  of  blood.  The  lands  on  the Wabash  are  ours.  We  have  not  placed  the  Prophet  there;  but, on  the  contrary,  have  endeavoured  to  stop  his  going  there.  He must  be  considered  as  settling  there  without  our  lea\  e.
Fatlier,  I  must  again  repeat  that  you  said  you  should  draw  a line  between  your  children  and  the  Proj^het.  We  are  not  pleased at  this,  because  we  think  you  have  no  reason  to  doubt  our  friend- ship toward  you.  I  have  not  said  much  to  you,  but  1  think  I have  said  enough  for  the  present;  my  words  are  few,  but  my meaning  great.  I  shall  close  by  requesting  you  will  i^ay  particu- lar attention  to  what  I  have  said.  This  is  all.  Father,  I  have  to say;  I  have  said  it  in  the  presence  of  your  messenger,  the  com- manding officer,  your  people,  and  all  mine.
SPEECH    OF   OSEEMIT,    A    PUTTAWATAMIE    CHIEF.
I  have  said  that  I  am  here  alone;  I  have  come  to  attend  to  the interest  of  my  women  and  children ;  1  have  thought  it  my  duty to  do  so,  as  the  other  chiefs  of  my  nation  are  absent.
When  I  heard  the  words  of  my  Father,  we,  the  Puttawatamies, inhabiting  the  Lakes,  from  Chicago  around  to  the  east,  are  of  the same  opinion  as  those  of  the  Miamies,  just  delivered  by  the Little  Turtle;  notwithstanding,  some  of  our  foolish  }oung  men have  killed  some  of  the  whites.  We,  the  chiefs  of  our  nation, have  told  our  young  men  not  to  listen  to  any  bad  birds  that  are flying  in  the  air;  but  some  of  them  have  been  led  astray,  inas- much as  they  have  not  followed  our  advice,  and  have  imprudently involved  themselves  in  difficulties.     We,  the  chiefs  of  the  Puita-
ADDRESSES  OF  WHITE  LOON  AND  LITTLE  TURTLE,    y^
watamies,  are  determined  that  their  faults  shall  not  be  charged  to our  nation.  We,  the  Puttawatamies  and  Miamies,  have  been friends  from  our  infancy.  We  shall  continue  to  be  so;  their  sen- timents are  ours,  and  ours  theirs.
Father,  what  we  said  to  each  other  at  the  treaty  of  Greenville is  fresh  in  our  memories.  We  there  told  each  other  that  improper conduct  of  individuals  should  not  reinvolve  us  in  difficulties;  this must  also  be  fresh  in  your  memories,  as  you  wrote  it  down,  and I  hope  it  will  long  be  remembered  by  both  of  us.  I  have  noth- ing further  to  say.*
ADDRESS   OF   WHITE    LOON,    A   WABASH    CHIEF.f  -v
You  have  heard  what  my  uncle,  the  Little  Turtle,  has  said; and  my  opinion  is  the  same.
LITTLE  TURTLE  ADDRESSED  THE  MIAMIES. I  told  my  people,  when  they  were  going  to  see  the  Governor, not  to  say  anything  respecting  the  land;  that  they  had  signed  the paper  closing  the  sales  of  the  land,  and  that  the  treaty  for  that land  was  a  fair  and  honorable  one.  I  also  told  them  to  have nothing  to  do  with  the  Prophet,  that  the  Prophet  was  an  enemy of  Governor  Harrison's,  and  Harrison  of  his;  that  if  they  formed any  kind  of  connexion  with  the  Prophet,  it  would  make  Governor Harrison  an  enemy  of  theirs.
Fort  Wayne,  2d  October,  1811.
SPEECH    OF    FIVE    MEDALS,  A    PUTTAWATAMIE    CHIEF.:!:
Addressed  to  his  Excel.lency,  William  H.  Harrison,  Governor  of
*  Os-see-mcet  here  protests  that  he  is  delegated  with  no  authority;  that  h« had  only  come  to  town  to  make  purchases  for  his  family;  and  tliat,  inasmuch as  the  other  chiefs  having  the  right  to  represent  his  nation  in  council  were absent,  he  deemed  it  his  duty  to  communicate  his  and  their  views.
t  Wap-a  [White]  Man-gua  [Loon],  and  by  this  name  he  signed  the' Treaty of  Greenville.  His  village  was  one  of  the  three  burned  on  the  Miss-iss-sin-e- wa  by  Col.  Campbell.
X  A  celebrated  war-chief  of  the  River  St.  Joseph  of  Lake  Michigan,  whose village  was  upon  the  Elkhart  Tributary  of  that  stream,  in  Northern  Indiana. He  is  recognized  under  various  names,  viz.:  at  the  Treaty  of  Greenville  as "Wau-gshe" — from  '•'■  Wan- i^ese''\  the  Odjibwa  name  for  a  favorite  silver  orna- nient  in  the  shape  of  and  called  a  "Half-Moon" — at  the  second  Treaty  of I'eace  executed  at  Greenville,  July  22,  1814,  he  is  written  down  as  "0-nox-a, <^r  Five  Medals";  while,  at  the  Treaty  of  Spring  Wells,  near  Detroit,  in ''■^15,  his  name  is  affixed  to  the  paichrnent  as  "Noun-geesia,  or  Five  Medals".
74  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT    FORT    WAYNE.
Indiana  Territory;   DELIVERED  in  the  presenxe  of  Topenai'a,* THE  Head  Chief  of  the  Pfttawatamie  Trihe  of  Indians,  and
ALSO    in  the    FRESENCE  OF   THE    MlAMI   ClIlEF,   LITTLE  TURTLE,  AND OTHERS.
Father  and  friend:     We  your  children,  the  Puttawatamies  and  |
Miamies,  now  take  you  by  the  hand  as  friends,  and  thank  the Great  Spirit  above  in  enabUng  us  to  do  so.
Father,  you  have  spoke  to  my  brothers,  the  Miamies,  and  also to  the  Puttawatamies.  Your  words  reached  my  place  of  residence during  my  absence,  consequently  I  was  not  able  to  understand what  you  said  as  well  as  I  wished,  therefore  I  came  to  Fort Wayne.
Father,  on  my  arrival  at  this  place,  I  sent  for  my  friend,  the Little  Turtle,  in  order  that  I  might  know  to  a  certainty  what  you had  said ;  I  have  seen  him,  and  he  has  given  me  the  information I  asked  for,  and  further  states  that  he  has  himself  already  answered you;  and  it  only  remains  for  me  now  to  answer  you.
Father,  I  now  tell  you  the  opinion  of  your  children,  the  Putta- watamies and  Miamies;  we  are  but  one  people,  and  we  speak with  but  one  voice,  therefore,  I  now  request  you  to  pay  particu- lar attention  to  what  I  say,  as  I  now  speak  the  sentiments  of them  all.
When  our  chiefs  arise  in  the  morning  and  see  the  clear  sky : when  they  see  the  beautiful  streams  of  water  that  are  running, which  is  to  be  used  by  their  women  and  children  in  peace  and quietness;  when  they  see  the  beautiful  greenwoods  around  tliem, which  was  made  for  their  use,  and  their  women  and  children enjoying  these  blessings  in  peace  and  quietness,  they  thank  the Great  Spirit  for  his  goodness  toward  them,  and  pray  to  him  thai he  may  continue  these  Vjlessings  forever.
Father,  the  words  which  you  are  now  listening  to  are  the  senti- ments of  your  children.  We  wish  to  live  in  peace  with  all  the world;  and  request  of  you  to  have  pity  on  our  younger  brothers that  reside  on  the  Wabash.
Father,  after  1  lieard  your  words,  I   looked  down  the  Wabash,
The  two  are  synonomous,  the  first  being  compounded  from  "Noun",  Five, and  "Gee-sia",  medaU  or  ornaments,  in  the  Pottawatomie  dialect,  allowing for  a  somewhat  defective  spelling  that  fails  to  fully  preserve  the  sound  of  the word  as  the  Iiidian  would  pronounce  i_t._  He  wore  upon  his  person  medals presented  to  him  by  both  British  and  American  authorities,  with  other  orna- ments, from  wliich  he  came  to  be  designated  as  "The  Five  Medals  ".
*  To-pen-ne-bec,  i)riiicipal  chief  of  the  Pottawatomie  nation,  the  protector of  Mr,  Kinzie's  family  at  the  Chicago  massacre,  narrated  in  Mrs.  Kinzie's "  Wau-Iiun  ".
SPEFXH    OF    FIVE    MEDALS.
/3
and  saw  that  the  Shawanoe  Projihet  had  led  some  of  our  younger jjeople,  Puttawatamies  and  ^^liamies,  astray.  I  have  understood. Father,  that  you  wished  to  see  nie;  whether  to  beUeve  or  disbe- lieve this  information  I  know  not;  yet,  if  it  is  your  wish  to  see me,  you  should  have  given  me  information  of  it  in  writing,  and that  by  the  way  of  Fort  "Wayne.
Father,  if  you  should  want  to  say  anything  to  us,  speak  to  us through  our  old  friend,  Capt. ^^'illiam  Wells,*  in  whom  we  all  have entire  confidence,  and  then  your  words  will  be  attended  to  imnie- diatcly.
Father,  I  do  not  know  that  T  have  much  more  to  say  to  you  at l)resent,  after  o])serving  that  your  knowledge  of  the  Indians  en- ables you  to  know  that  the  Puttawatamies  and  Miamies  are  one l)eople,  and  as  our  brothers,  the  chiefs  of  the  Miamies,  are  pres- ent, perhaps  they  may  ha\'e  something  to  say  to  you.t
*  Killed  at  the  Chicago  Massacre,  August  15,  1812.  In  the  employ  of  the Uiuted  States  as  interpreter,  scout,  or  agent,  from  July,  1792,  to  the  time  of his  death,  and  for  many  years  a  resident  at  F't.  Wayne;  and  well  known  to all  the  Indians  visiting  that  post,  to  receive  their  annuities  or  for  other  pur- poses, by  many  of  whom  he  was  held  in  high  esteem  and  by  others  as  thor- oughly hated  for  his  unswerving  devotion  to  the  United  States.
t  Soon  after  the  surrender  of  Detroit,  Fort  Wayne  was  besieged.  With plenty  of  provisions  and  water,  four  small  field-pieces,  at.d  seventy  men,  the fort  was  well  prepared  to  resist  a  siege  by  the  Indians;  the  latter,  therefore, undertook  to  gain  its  possession  by  strategem.  The  Five  Medals  and  other chiefs,  in  their  conferences  with  the  garrison  under  flags  of  truce,  had  observed that  the  commandant,  Capt.  Rhea,  who  was  wtll  advanced  in  years  and  much addicted  to  drunkenn-ss,  betrayed  a  spirit  of  timidity,  which  justified  them  in believing  they  could  use  him  in  their  purposes  if  they  once  had  him  in  their power.  Acting  on  this  idea,  it  was  arranged  that,  under  pretence  of  holding a  friendly  conference.  Five  Medals,  Win-ne-mac,  and  three  other  hostile  chiefs were  to  gain  admission  into  the  council -room,  within  the  fort,  with  their scalping-knives  antl  pistols  secreted  under  their  blankets.  Then,  upon  an understood  signal  being  given,  they  were  to  assassinate  tlie  two  subordinate officers,  seize  Caj)t.  Rhea,  and  with  threats  of  instant  death  if  he  did  not comply,  and  promises  of  personal  safety  if  he  did,  compel  him  to  order  the gate>.  of  the  fort  to  be  thrown  open  for  the  admission  of  their  warriors,  lying in  ambush  without.  The  plan  was  put  injejcecution,  but  was  balked  by  a  cir- cumstance, seemingly,  almost  miraculous.  \Vm.  Oliver,  a  young  man  of  Ft. Wayne,  though  al)Sent  at  Cincinnati  when  the  siege  began,  who,  learning  on his  way  home  that  the  Indians  had  invested  the  fort,  hurried  back  toward  the settlements  to  give  tiie  alarm  and  secure  assistance,  after  which  he  again  set out  for  Port   Wayne,  in  advance  of  the  forces  marching  to  its  relief,  for  the
/O  INDIAN    SPEECHES   AT    FQRT   WAYNE.
SPEECH   OF   EITTLE    TURTEE.    A    MIAMIE   CHIEF.  |
Addressed  to  his  Excellency,  Willlvm  H.  Harrison,  Governor  of  |
Indiana  Territory.  '(
Friend  and  Brotlier,  you  have  listened  to  our  chiefs,  the  Put-  |
tawatamies.      You   see   that   their   sentiments   and   ours   are   the  I
same,  as  respects  the  wehare  of  our  people.     It  is  true  that  some  |
of  our  foolish  young  men  have  been  deluded  by  the  Shawanoe  s
Prophet,  and  made  to  follow  a  path  that  is-  filled  with  thorns  and  |
briers.  We  pray  you  to  have  pity  on  these  foolish  people,  and forgive  them  th-e  crimes  they  have  committed.
^ly  frieiid,  I  could  not  say  anything  more  to  you  than  what  our great  chiet",  the  Five  I^ledals,  has  said.  He  has  told  you  to  for- give those  foolish  people  that  have  been  led  astray  by  the  Prophet. Tell  them  the  impropriety  of  their  conduct,  and  request  them  to do  better;  and  we  hope  they  will  do  better.
purpose  of  encouraging  the  garrison  to  persevere  in  its  defence  until  their arrival.  Luckily,  the  Indians  had  been  withdrawn  from  the  direction  by which  Oliver,  ia  company  with  two  friendly  Shawnees,  were  approaching  the fort,  and  were  massed  upon  tlje  opposite  side.  Win-ne-mac,  the  Five  Medals, and  their  tliree  confederates,  with  their  flag  of  truce,  were  in  the  act  of  carry- ing their  plan  into  execution  as  Oliver  and  his  Shawnees  reached  the  gate. The  attacking  and  the  relieving  party,  each  unknowing  of  the  purposes  or  near presence  of  the  other,  coming  by  different  directions,  and  screened  by  the angles  of  the  fort,  were  not  seen  by  each  other  until  this  moment.  Win-ne- mac,  much  chagrined  at  the  unexpected  turn  of  affairs,  uttered  an  ejaculation of  disappointment,  and  with  the  others  returned  to  their  waiting  warriors with  the  word  that  the  attempted  surprise  of  the  fort  had  failed.  The  account of  the  above,  jiot  generally  known,  incident  connected  with  the  investment  of Fort  Wayne,  is  condensed  from  Dr.  Drake's  "Tecumthe".
On  the  I2th  of  September,  1812,  Gov,  Harrison,  with  two  thousand  Ken- tuckians  and  several  hundred  citizen  militia  of  Ohio,  by  severe  and  forced marches,  arrived  at  Fort  Wayne;  the  troops  were  broken  up  into  several detachments  and  sent  out  southwest,  west,  and  northwest  on  retaliative  mis- sions. On  the  morning  of  September  16,  the  detachment  commanded  by Col.  Samuel  Wells  struck  the  Five  Medal's  Town,  burned  it  to  the  ground — the  inhabitants  having  fled  two  days  before — cajjtured  a  large  quantity  of  corn, in  process  of  rlrying  upon  scaffolds,  and  an  abundance  of  beans,  potatoes,  and other  provisions,  besides  which  they  tcJtally  destroyed  seventy  acres  of  corn. In  the  village  were  several  coarse  bags,  appearing  to  have  contained  shot; pieces  of  gun  and  ammunition  boxes  with  London  and  Maiden  printed  upon them,  and  abundant  other  evidence  that,  since  his  friendly  speech  of  the  pre- vious October,  the  Five  Medals,  like  all  the  rest  of  his  nation,  had  gone  ove' to  the  British,
SPEECH    OF    LITTLE   TURTLE.  .  • .  r  TJ
My  friend,  these  are  the  sentiments  of  our  hearts;  to  live  in peace  with  all  people,  is  our  first  wish;  and  we  have  entire  con- fidence that  the  Treaty  of  Greenville  is  fresh  in  the  mind  of  our Father,  the  President  of  the  United  States.  I  have  nothing  more to  say  at  present.
Father,  we  all  now  take  you  by  the  hand  and  request  the  Great Spirit  to  incline  your  heart  to  be  kind  to  your  Red  brothers.
Fort  Wayne,  j-j-///  Ja unary,   1S12.
A   LETTER    FR(JM    THE    CELEBRATED    MLVMFE    CHIEF,       ' LITTLE   TURTLE.
To  HIS  Excellency,  Willlvnt   H.   Hakkisox,  Goverxor  of  Ixdlvna Territory.
My  friend:  I  have  been  requested  by  my  nation  to  speak  to you,  and  I  obey  their  request  witli  pleasure,  because  I  believe their  situation  requires  all  the  aid  I  can  afford  them.  When  your speech  by  Mr.  Dubois  was  received  by  the  Miamies,  they  answered it,  and  I  made  known  to  you  their  opinion  at  that  time.  Your letter  to  William  Wells,  of  the  23d  November  last,  has  been explained  to  the  Miamie  and  Eel-River  tribes  of  Indians.
My  friend,  altho'  neither  of  these  tribes  have  had  anything to  do  with  the  late  unfortunate  affair  which  happened  on  the Wabash,  still  they  all  rejoice  to  hear  you  say  thr.t  if  those  foolish Indians,  which  were  engaged  in  that  action,  would  return  to  their several  homes  and  remain  quiet,  that  they  would  be  pardoned  and again  received  by  the  President  as  his  children.  We  believe there  are  none  of  them  that  will  be  so  foolish  as  not  to  accept  of this  friendly  offer;  while  at  the  same  time  I  assure  you  that  noth- ing shall  be  wanting  on  my  part  to  prevail  on  them  to  accept  it.
All  the  Prophet's  followers  have  left  him  (with  the  exception  of two  camps  of  his  own  tribe).  Tecumseh*  has  just  joined  him, with  eight  men  only.  No  danger  can  be  apprehended  from  them at  present.  Our  eyes  will  be  constantly  kept  on  them,  and  should they  attempt  to  gather  strength  again,  we  will  do  all  in  our  power
*  In  this  "Talk" — the  la-,t  ever  made  by  the  Little  Turtle— he  here  refers  to the  battle  of  Tippecanoe,  fought  on  the  morning  of  the  7th  of  the  previous November.  The  original  address  will  be  found  in  Gen.  Harrison's  Memoirs, of  which  that  in  the  Ft.  Wayne  manuscript  above  is  a  literal  copy,  except that  the  two  words,  in  the  closing  line,  '■'hurl  our''''  are  substituted  for  '^ burst on"  in  the  original;  v.hicii  reads  "  *  *  *  the  storm  that  threatens  to  bwst on  our  nations."  'I'he  copy  above  varies  a  little  in  the  address  and  omits  the certificate  of  nuthenlication,  which  is  as  follows  in  the  original:
y%  INDIAN    SrEECHES   AT   EORT   WAYNE.
to  prevent  it,  and  at  the  same  time  give  you  immediate  informa- tion of  their  intentions.
We  are  sorry  that  tliat  peace  and  friendship,  which  has  so  long existed  between  the  red  and  the  white  people,  could  not  be  pre- served without  the  loss  of  so  many  good  men  as  fell  on  botli sides  in  the  late  action  on  the  Wabash;  but  we  are  satisfied  that it  will  be  the  means  of  making  that  peace  which  ought  to  exist between  us  more  respected,  both  by  the  red  and  the  white people.
We  have  lately  been  told,  by  difierent  IndiaJis  from  that  quar- ter, that  you  wished  the  Indians  from  this  country  to  visit  you: this  they  will  do  with  pleasure,  when  you  give  them  information of  it  in  writing.
My  friend,  the  clouds  appear  to  be  rising  in  a  different  quarter, Avhich  threatens  to  turn  our  light  into  darkness.  To  prevent  this, it  may  require  the  united  efforts  of  us  all.
We  hope  that  none  of  us  will  be  found  to  shrink  from  the storm  that  threatens  to  hurt  our  nations.
Your  friend,  ■  ■    '
MiSHECAXOCQUAH    Or   LlTTLE   Ttr'he.     X For  the  Miamie  and  Eel-River  tribes  of  Indians.
"Ft.  Wayne,  Jj  Ja unary,  1S12. "GovKRNoR  Harrison'  : — My  friend :  "
here  follows  the  Talk,  ending  with  Little  Turtle's  name,  as  above,  all  which is  verified  thus :
"Witness.         Wm.  Turner,  S.-Mate,  U.  S.  Army.  ■   "
"I  certify  that  the  above  is  a  true  translation.      W.  Wef.ls.  "
Mr.  Dawson,  the  compiler  of  the  Memoirs  quoted,  in  introducing  this address,  says,  "The  'talk  received  from  the  Little  Turtle,  which  so  feelingly deplores  the  consequences  of  the  late  action,  also  appears  to  allude  to  the gathering  storm  that  broke  out  in  the  June  following  [when  the  United  States made  a  formal  declaration  of  war  against  Great  Britain].  This  information the  Little  Turtle  must  have  had  from  some  communication,  by  himself  or others,  v/ith  British  agents.  The  speech  is  given  as  a  relic  of  that  extraordi- nary genius  who  was  fated  not  long  to  survive  it."
A  more  extended  sketch  of  Capt.  Wells  and  the  Little  Turtle  is  now  v/ell advanced  for  the  press  by  the  author  of  these  notes.
MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  79
The   Manners   and   Customs  of  the    North- Western
Indians.  [IIisroRicAi..]
The  French  were  the  first  white  people  that  were  ever  known among  the  North-Western  Indians.
When  the  British  and  French  commenced  a  war  against  each other  in  North  America,  the  North-Western  Indians'  joined  the French,  and- some  of  the  Six  Nations  of  Indians  joined  the  British.
After  the  British  had  gotten  possession  of  this  country  from  the French,  a  Tawa  chief,  by  the  name  of  Pontioch,  renewed  the  war against  the  British,  and  took  all  the  posts  that  were  occupied  by the  latter,  on  the  Lakes  and  their  waters,  in  one  day,  (Detroit excepted)  where  Pontioch  himself  was.  I'his  wonderful  achieve- ment of  military  skill  was  performed  by  stratagem.
After  this,  in  1774,  the  first  war  commenced  between  the Americans  and  the  North-Western  Indians.  The  principal  action that  took  place  between  the  parties  was  at  the  mouth  of  the  Big Canawa."^''  The  Indian  army  consisted  of  about  three  hundred Shawanoes  and  Delewares,  and  a  few  Miamies,  Mingoes,  and Wyandotts,  all  of  \\hom  were  commanded  by  the  celebrated Shawanoe  chief,  Cornstalk.
This  was  the  war  that  ended  at  the  Treaty  of  Greenville,  in 17^5,  altho*  at  ditTerent  times,  individual  Indians  would  treat  or pretend  to  do  so  with  the  Americans,  while  at  the  same  time, other  Indians  would  be  destroying  some  of  the  very  people  that their  chiefs  were  treating  with.
The  Indians  that  opposed  General  Sullivan, t  in  1779,  were  the combined  forces  of  the  Six  Nations.  Their  number,  and  by  whom commanded,  I  do  not  know.
The  Indians  that  defeated  Colonel  Crawford:}:  at  Sandusky  were the  Wyandotts,  l^elewares,  Shawanoes,  Cherokees,  Puttawatamies,
*  Battle  of  Point  Pleasant,  October  10,  1774.
t  John  Sullivan,  born  in  Maine,  February  17,  1740;  was  appointed  in the  Continental  army  from  New  Hampshire;  promoted  to  major-general, August  9,  1776;  resigned,  November  30,  1779;  and  died  in  New  Hampshire, January  23,  1795. — Gardner.
t  William  Crawford,  an  old  jiioneer,  Washington's  business  agent  in  the West,  who,  under  protest,  commanded  IHis  expedition  of  nearly  five  lumdred men,  organized  to  destroy  the  inhabitants  and  towns  of  the  Moravian  Dela- wares  and  Wyandots  upon  the  Sandusky,  was  taken  prisoner  by  the  Indians and  afterward,  March  ii,  1782,  tortured  to  death  in  a  most  horrible  manner near  Sandusky, — Antiais  of  the  West.
8o  ^[.\NNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.
Ottaways,  and  a  few  of  the  Six  Nations,  said  to  be  eight  hundred in  all.  I  never  heard  who  commanded  them,  as  the  Indians always  keep  the  number  of  their  killed  and  wounded  as  secret  as possible.  I  shall  not  undertake  to  say  what  number  were  killed and  wounded  in  either  of  the  actions  above  mentioned.
Bowman's  campaign  was-against  the  Shawanoes,-^  on  the  Little Miamie  River.  I  am  not  acquainted  with  any  of  the  particulars of  the  action  that  took  place  between  him  and  the  Indians.
My  knowledge  of  the  campaign  carried  on  by  General  Clarkt
*  Col.  Joseph  Bowman's  command  in  July,  1779,  destroyed  their  town, capturing  some  booty,  including  160  horses. — Antials  of  the  Wesf,  217.
f  Geo.  Rogers  Clark,  born  Albemarle  Co.,  Va.,  Nov.  19,  1752;  died  near Louisville,  Ky.,  Feb.  13,  1818.  Originally  a  land-surveyor,  he  commanded a  company  in  Dunmore's  army  in  1774.  In  1775,  he  went  to  Kentucky,  and took  command  of  the  armed  settlers.  In  the  spring  of  1778,  Maj,  Clark  was intrusted  by  Gov.  Henry  of  Virginia  with  the  command  of  an  expedition against  the  British  at  Kaskaskia,  v.-hich  he  surprised  and  captured.  He  suc- ceeded, also,  in  reducing  other  posts  in  this  region,  including  that  at  Vincennes, which  were  organized  into  a  county,  under  the  jurisdiction  of  Virginia,  and named  Illinois.  Promoted  to  colonel  by  the  Virginia  authorities,  he  applied himself  successfully  to  the  pacification  of  the  Indian  tribes.  While  thus engaged,  he  learned  that  Gov.  Hamilton  of  Detroit  had  captured  Vinct-nnes, and  that  further  blows  were  to  be  struck  against  American  posts.  Anticipat- ing the  enemy,  Col.  Clark  commenced  his  march  against  Vincennes,  February 7,  1779,  with  175  men,  traversing  a  wilderness  and  the  drowned  lands  of  Illi- nois, suflTering  every  privation  from  wet,  cold,  and  hunger.  The  place  wa? besieged  on  the  morning  of  the  19th,  and  was  surrendered  the  next  day.  lie intercepted  a  convoy  of  goods  worth  $10,000,  and  built  Fort  Jefferson  on  the west  bank  of  the  Mississippi.  In  retaliation  for  the  inroads  of  the  British  and Indians  into  Kentucky,  in  June,  1780,  he  led  a  force  against  the  Shavvuecs  on the  Great  Miami,  defeating  them  with  heavy  loss,  at  Pickawa.  Daring Arnold's  invasion,  Clark  took  temporary  command  under  Baron  Stuben.  He afterward  succ  .eded  in  raising  a  considerable  force  for  an  expedition  against Detroit,  and  ,vas  made  a  brigadier;  but  the  progress  of  Cornwallis,  and  the poverty  of  the  country,  restricted  the  frontiersmen  to  the  defensive.  In  Sep- tember, 1782,  Gen.  Clark,  at  the  head  of  more  than  looo  mounted  rillemcn, assembled  at  the  mouth  of  the  Licking,  invaded  the  Indian  towns  on  the Scioto,  burned  five  of  their  villages,  and  laid  waste  their  plantations,  produc- ing a  salutary  effect,  and  so  awing  thV savages  that  no  formidable  Indian  war- party  ever  after  invaded  Kentucky.  In  17S6,  Clark  commanded  an  expedition of  1000  men  against  the  Indians  on  the  Wabash.  It  was  a  failure.  His great  services  to  his  country  were  passed  over,  and  he  died  in  poverty  and obscurity,      "A  Sketch  of  his  Campaign  in  Illinois  in  1778  9,"  by  H.  Pirtle,
MANNERS   AND   CUSTOMS.  8 1
against  the  Shawanoes,  on  ]\Iad  River  and  die  Big  Miamic,  is  not to  be  depended  on.
When  General  Harmar''^  arrived  at  the  Miamie  Town,  he  sent Col.  John  Hardin+  with  a  party  of  men  in  search  of  the  Indians.
was  published.  8vo.,  Cincinnati,  1S69. — Drake.  A  county  in  Illinois  and other  western  States,  as  well  as  many  towns,  and  one  of  the  principal  streets of  Chicago  are  named  for  him.
*  Josiah  Harmar,  born  in  Philadelphia,  1753;  died  there,  August  20,  1S13. Educated  chielly  at  Robert  Proud's  Quaker  School,  Philadelphia.  Made captain  1st  Pennsylvania  regiment  in  October,  1776;  was  its  lieut. -colonel  in 1777,  and  until  the  close  of  the  Revolution.  He  \\as  in  Washington's  army in  the  campaigns  of  177S-S0;  served  under  Gen.  Greene,  in  the  South,  in 1781-2;  and  was  made  brevet-colonel  ist  U.-S.  rei^iment,  September  30,  17S3. In  17S4,  he  took  to  Erance  the  ratitication  of  the  definitive  treaty.  As  Indian- agent  for  the  Northwest  Territory,  he  was  present,  January  20,  17S5,  at  the treaty  at  Fort  Mcintosh.  Lieut. -colonel  of  infantry  under  the  Confederation, August  12,  1784;  brevet-brigadier-general  (by  resolve  of  Congress,  July  31, 17S7, )  and  general-in-chief  of  the  army  (September  29,  1789);  commanded  an expedition  against  the  Miami  Indians,  September  30,  1790,  and  partially defeated,  October  22,  1790;  resigned  January  i,  1792;  adjutant-general  of Pennsylvania,  1793-9;  and  active  in  preparing  and  furnishing  the  Pennsylvania troops  for  Wayne's  Indian  campaign,  1793-4. — ./.   T.  Goodman^ s  Metnoir.
■!■  John  Hardin,  born  in  Fauquier  Co.,  Va.,  Oct.  I,  1753,  died  1792.  He early  became  an  excellent  marksman;  served  with  distinction  in  the  Indian wars  of  Virginia,  and  as  a  lieutenant  in  Morgan's  Ritle  Corps  in  the  Revolu- tion; settled  in  Washington  Co.,  Ky.,  in  1786.  He  commanded  a  detach- ment of  Kentucky  and  Pennsylvania  militia  under  Gen.  Harmar  at  his  defeat, Oct.  19  and  22,  1790;  commanded  Brig. -Gen.  Chas.  Scott's  advance,  and  distin- guished in  his  successful  expedition  against  the  Indians  on  the  Wabash,  in  May, 179'-  Murdered  by  the  Indians  while  bearing  a  flag  of  truce,  near  Shawnee- town,  O.,  for  his  horse  and  equipments,  which  were  very  fine;  was  the  fcither  of Martin  D.  Hardin,  lawyer,  born  on  the  Monongahela  River,  Pa.,  June  21,  17S0; died  Oct.  S,  1823,  educated  at  Transylyania  Academy;  studied  law;  several years  a  member  of  the  Kentucky  legislature;  secretary  of  state  1812;  a  major nndcr  Maj.-Gen.  Harrisor  in  the  X.-W.  army  in  Lt.-Col,  John  Allen's  Rifle R«ri;'t  of  Aug.,  1812;  U.-S.  senator  1S16-7.  He  published  reports  of  Laws  in Kentucky  Court  of  Appeals  1S05-8,  Frankfort,  8vo.,  1810.  His  son,  John  J. Hardin,  born  in  Frankfort,  Ky.,  Jan.  6,  i^io;  educated  at  Transylvania  Uni- versity; practised  law  at  Jacksonville,  III.;  was  prosccuiing-attorney;  member of  the  111,  legislature,  1836-42;  representative  in  Congress  from  111.,  1843-5; 'til.  ist  Reg't  12-month  volunteers  in  Mexican  war;  June  30,  1846;  killed, i  cbruary  23,  1847,  in  battle  of  Buena  Vista,  while  leading  his  regiment  in  a
6
\y.
S2  MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.
Coi.  Hardin  met  three  hundred  ?\Iiamies  at  the  head  of  Eel River  wlio  were  commanded  by  the  celebrated  Miamie  chief. Little  Turtle.  An  action  ensued,  and  the  whites  were  defeated. '■■■ The  Indians  had  one  man  killed  and  two  wounded.  The  Indians that  fought  the  troops  under  the  command  of  Col.  Harmar  in the  ^kliamie  Town,  were  the  part}-  above  mentioned,  and  com- manded by  the  same  chief;  also  a  body  of  five  hundred  more, consisting  of  Shawanoes,  Delewares,  Puttawatamies,  Chippawa}-s. and  Ottaways.  The  Shawanoes  were  commanded  by  their  ovvn chief,  Blue-Jacket;  the  Delewares  by  Buckingehelas:  and  the Ottaways  and  Chippeways  by  Agaskawak,  an  Ottaway  chief  Tlie Indians  say  they  had  fifteen  killed  and  twenty-five  wounded. General  Scott'st  campaign  was  against  the  Weeas'  Town  on  the
charge  at  the  latest  contlict.  His  son,  Gen.  Martin  D.  Hardin,  great-grandson of  John  Hardin,  born  at  Jacksonville,  111.,  June  26,  1S37;  graduate  of  West Point;  brevet  2d  lieut.  3d  Artillery,  July  i,  1S59;  2d  lieut.,  January  2,  1S60; 1st  lieut.,  May  14,  1S61;  lieut. -colonel  I2lh  Pennsylvania  Reserve  Veteran Corps,  July  8,  1S62;  brevet-captain,  August  29,  1S62,  for  gallant  and  merito- rious service  in  battle  of  Groveton,  Va. ;  brevet-major,  August  30,  1862,  for gal.  and  mer.  service  in  battle  of  Bull  Run  (2d),  Va. ;  colonel  12th  Veteran Reserve  Corps,  Sept.  i,  1862;  brevet  lieut. -colonel,  ]")ec.  14,  1863,  for  gai. and  mer.  service  in  an  encounter  with  band  of  guerillas;  brevet-colonel.  May 2^,  1864,  for  gal.  and  mer.  sefvTce  in  battle  of  N.  Anna  River,  Va. ;  mustered out  of  Volunteer  service,  June  11,  1864;  brig.-general  of  Volunteers,  July  2. 1864;  brevet  brig.-general,  March  13,  i^>65,  for  gal.  and  mer.  service  in  the field  during  the  war;  mustered  out  of  Volunteer  service,  Jan.  15,  1866:  major 43d  Infantry,  July  28,  1866;  transferred  to  ist  Infantry,  March  15,  iS6q. Retired  with  rank  of  brig.-general,  Dec.  15,  1870;  loss  of  left  arm  and wounds  in  line  of  duty  (under  Acts  of  Congress,  August  3,  1S61,  and  July  28, 1866).  —  Ga)d)ier,  Drake,  I/a>?iersl}'.
*  1790,  Oct.  19  and  22.  Battle  on  the  Miami  River,  Ohio,  fought  by  the U.  S,  Artillery,  Pennsylvania  and  Kentucky  militia,  under  Brig. -Gen.  Josiaii Harmar;  and  who  were  defeated  by  bands  of  Indian  warriors.  Our  troops engaged  on  the  19th  v.ere  30  regulars  and  180  militia;  and  on  the  22d  60  reg- ulars and  340  militia.     Our  loss  was.  183  killed  and  31  Mfounc\ed.-~Gcirdfit;r.
+  Charles  Scott,  soldier  and  governor  of  Kentucky,  i8o8--Sept,,  1812,  byrn in  Curni.»crland  Co.,  \'a.,  1733;  died  Oct.  22,  1820.  A  non-com.  officer  of Virginia  mditia  at  Braddock's  defeat  in  1755;  raised  and  commanded  the  fir>t company  south  of  the  James  for  the  Revolutionary  army;  was  appointed colonel  of  3d  Virginia  Batt.,  Aug.  12,  1776;  was  distinguished  at  Trenton; made  a  brig. -gen.,  April  2,  1777;  was  with  Gen.  Wayne  at  the  storming  of Stony  Point  in   1779;  v/as  made  pri.soner  at  Charleston,  S.C,  in  1780,  and
w
^s
MANNERS    AND    CUSTOMS.         .  83
Wabash,  where  he  met  with  Httle  or  no  opposition,  as  the  warriors of  the  Weeas  expected  that  General  Scott  was  going  against  the Miamie  Town,  and  had  nearly  all  left  their  own  village  to  meet him  there.  Eight  men  and  two  women  were  killed  by  the  troops under  General  Scott  at  the  Weeas'  Town.  The  number  of  women and  children  that  were  taken  prisoners,  I  do  not  recollect.
Gen.  Wilkinson's''^  campaign  was  against  the  Eel-River  Town.t He  met  with  no  opposition,  as  there  were  but  ten  old  men,  three young  ones,  and  a  few  women  and  children.  Four  men  were killed,  and  one  woman.  The  number  of  prisoners  taken,  I  do not  recollect.
In  1790,  an  arm}-  of  Indians,  composed  of  Miamies,  Dele- wares,  Shawanoes,  and  a  few  Puttawatamies,  three  hundred  in number,  who  were  commanded  by  the  Little  Turtle,  attacked Dunlop"s  Station,  on  the  Big  Miamie  River.  This  Post  was  com- manded by  Lieut.  Jacob  Kingsbury. :|:  The  hidians  had  ten  killed and  the  same  number  wounded.  ,.^   ,.^    ,      ,,    •,
was  not  exchanged  until  near  the  close  of  the  war.  At  Monmouth,  where  he was  the  last  to  leave  the  field,  he  was  particularly  distinguished.  In  1785, he  settled  in  Woodford  Co.,  Ky. ;  as  brig. -gen.  of  Kentucky  levies,  was  with Cren.  St.  Clair  at  his  defeat  in  1791;  commanded  a  successful  expedition  to  the Wabash,  and  in  actions  with  the  Indians  in  May  and  June,  1791;  maj.-gen. of  division  of  I  Goo  Kentucky  mounted  volunteers  under  Gen.  Wayne,  July  2, 1793;  ^^^  distinguished  in  his  victory  Aug.  20,  1794,  when  he  commanded  a portion  of  Wayne's  army  at  the  battle  of  Fallen  Timbers.  Served  from  May II  to  Oct.  26,  1794.  The  shiretown  of  Powhatan  Co.  was  named  for  him,, also  a  county  in  Kentucky. — Drake.
*  James  Wilkinson,  born  in  Maryland,  1757.  Adjutant-general  in  Gates' army  at  Saratoga,  1777;  lieut. -colonel  commandant  2d  Infantry,  Nov.  7,  1791; commanded  expedition  on  the  Wabash  in  1791  and  Feb.,  1792;  brig. -general, -March  5,  1792;  commanded  right  wing  of  Wayne's  army  in  his  victory  of -Aug.  20,  1794,  at  the  Maumee  Rapids,  and  was  distinguished;  governor  of Louisiana  Terr'y,  Dec,  1S05  7;  general-in-chief  of  the  army  from  Dec,  1796, to  July,  179S;  and  from  June,  1S05,  to  Jan.,  1812;  brevet  major-general,  July 10,  1812;  major-general,  March  2,  1813;  disbanded  June  15,  1815.  Died  near Mexico,  Dec.  28,  1825;  buried  in  the  parish  of  San  Vi\<g\\Q\..  — Gardner.
+  August  7,  1791.
*  Jacob  King>bury,  born  in  Norwich,  Conn.,  1755?  was  42  years  in  the I'.-S.  service,  having  risen  from  the  ranks — which  he  joined  at  Roxbury,  in 1755 — to  be  an  officer  in  the  Revolutionary  army.  Served  in  Wayne's  Indian Campaigns.  Lieut,  of  Inf'y  regiment,  Sept.  29,  1789;  Capt.,  Dec,  1791;  in 1  sub-legion  Dec,  1792;  in   1st  Inf'y,  Nov.,  1796;  major  2d  Inf'y,  May  15,
84  MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.
.  There  was  an  army  of  Indians  composed  of  Miamies,  Putta- watamies,  Ottaways,  Chippaways,  Wyandotts,  Delewares,  Shawa- noes,  and  a  few  Mingoes  and  Cherokees,  amounting  in  all  to eleven  hundred  and  thirty-three,  that  attacked  and  defeated  Gen- eral St.  Clair  on  the  4th  November,  1791.''  Each  nation  was  com- manded by  their  own  chiefs,  all  of  whom  were  governed  by  the Little  Turtle,  who  made  the  arrangement  for  the  action  and  com- menced the  attack  with  the  Miamies,  who  were  under  his  imme- diate command.  The  Indians  had  thirty  killed  and  died  with their  wounds  the  day  of  the  action,  and  fifty  wounded.
In  the  autumn  of  i792,t  an  army  of  three  hundred  Indians, composed  of  Miamies,  Delewares,  Shawanoes,  and  a  few  Putta- watamies,  who  were  commanded  by  the  Little  Turtle,  attacked Col.  John  Adair,  J  under  the  walls  of  Fort  St.  Clair,  where  they  had two  m.en  killed.  "  a     *
1797;  Lt.-Col.  ist  Inf'y,  April  1 1,  1S03;  Colonel  1st  Inf'y,  Aug.  iS;  iSoS; Inspector-Gen.  (rank  of  colonel),  April  28,  1813;  disbaneied  June,  1S15;  died at  Franklin,  Mo.,  July  i,  1S37.  His  son,  Col.  Thomas  H.  C.  Kingsbury, born  in  New  Orleans,  Dec.  23,  1S07,  was  Col.  of  nth  Conn,  volunteers,  and was  killed  at  Antietam,  Sept.  17,  1862. — Gardner^  Drake.
*  1 791,  Nov.  4.  Battle  near  the  sources  of  the  Maumee  of  the  Lakes, fought  by  a  battalion  of  the  2d  infantry  and  ^levies  from  Kentucky,  North Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  and  New  Jersey,  about  I4(X)  effectives  under  Maj.- Gen.  Arthur  St.  Clair;  defeated  by  some  1500  Indian  warriors.  Our  loss  was 632  killed  and  264  wounded. — Gardner.
+  1792,  Nov.  6.  Conflict  in  sioht  of  Fort  St.  Clair,  fought  by  Kentucky mounted  men,  about  50,  under  Maj.  John  Adair,  against  Indian  warriors. Our  loss,  6  killed,  5  wounded;  the  Indian  loss  greater. — Ibid,
t  John  Adair,  born  Chester  Co.,  S.C.,  August  16,  1759;  died  Ilarrisburg, Ky.,  May  19,  1S40.  Received  a  public-school  education;  served  in  the  Revo- lutionary army;  removed  to  Kentucky  in  1787;  was  a  major  of  Kentucky mounted  "levies"  under  Cen.  St.  Clair  and  Gen,  Wilkinson  in  expeditions against  the  Northwestern  Indians  in  1791;  was  attacked  by  the  Miami  chief, Little  Turtle,  in  camp  near  Fort  .St.  Clair,  November  6,  1792,  and  forced  to retreat;  was  lieut. -colonel  commandant  in  Gen.  Charles  Scott's  division  in July,  1793.  He  was  a  volunteer  aide  to  Gen.  Shelby  at  the  battle  of  the Thames,  October  5,  1813;  made  brigadic  ^"^'^  adjutant-general  to  Maj. -Gen. Thomas'  division  of  Kentucky,  6-months'  militia,  November  10,  1814;  and commanded  the  Kentucky  Rifle-Brigade  (centre  of  Gen.  'ackson's  line,  January 8,  1815)  with  distinction  at  New  Orleans  in  1814-5.  He  was  several  years  a member  of  the  Kentucky  Legislature,  of  which  body  he  was  also  speaker; was  a  member  of  the  Kentucky  Constitutional  Convention  in  1799;  and  Regis-
MANNERS   AND   CUSTOMS.  8$
The  30th  Jnne,  1794,  an  army  of  fourteen  hundred  and  fifty Indians,  composed  of  ^liamies,  Puttawatamies,  Delewares,  Sha- wanoes,  Ottawas,  Chippaways,  and  Wyandotts,  with  a  number  of French  and  other  white  men  in  the  British  employ,  attacked  Fort Recovery.'"  The  Indians  were  commanded  by  the  Bear  chief,  an Ottaway.  The  white  men  attached  to  the  Indian  army  were  com- manded by  EUiott  and  McKee.  both  British  otticers.  The  garri- son was  commanded  by  Capt.  Gibson, t  of  the  4  sub-legion.  The Indians  have  repeatedly  told  me  that  they  had  between  forty  and tifty  men  killed,  and  upward  of  a  hundred  wounded,  a  number of  whom  died  of  their  wounds.  This  was  the  severest  blow  I ever  knew  the  Indians  to  receive  from  the  whites.
The  Indians  that  fought  General  Wayne,  J  the  20th  of  August, i794,§  was  an  army  of  eight  hundred  men,  consisting  of  Miamies, Shawanoes,  Puttawatamies,  Delewares,  Ottaways,  Chippaways, and  Wyandotts,  with  a  number  of  white  men  from  Detroit.  The Indians  were  governed  by  British  influence,  and  consequently made  but  little  resistance.  The  Indians  had  twenty-four  killed and  fifteen  wounded.
The  Indians  that  fought   the   troops  under  the  command  of
ter  of  the  U.-S.  Land-Office;  U.-S.  senator  in  1805-6;  governor  of  Kentucky, 1820-4;  and  a  Democratic  Member  of  Congress,  in  place  of  John  Breckin- ridge, resigned,  in  1805,  and  in  183 1-3,  serving  on  the  Committee  on  Military Affairs. — Gardner,  Drake.
*  1794,  June  30.  Defence  of  Fort  Recovery  by  its  garrison  of  riflemen  and voluntary  cavalry,  imder  Maj.  Wm.  McMahon  of  the  4th  sub-legion  (who  was killed),  against  a  vastly  superior  force  of  Miami  Indians.  Our  loss  was  22 killed  and  30  wounded.  —  Gardner.
+  Alexander  Gibson,  ^'irginia;  captaia  Infantry,  Nov,  21,  1782;  in  4  sub- legion,  Dec,  1792;  distinguished  in  command  of  garrison  of  Fort  Recovery, in  victorious  repulse  of  Indians,  Nov.  30,  1794;  in  4th  Infantry,  Nov.,  1706; resigned  Nov.   15,  1800. — Ibid.
%  Anthony  Wayne,  born  Jan.  i,  1745,  in  Chester  Co.,  Pennsylvania.  Brig.- general  in  Revolutionary  army,  Feb.  21,  1877;  representative  in  Congress  from Georgia,  1791 -2.  Major-general  and  general-in-chief  of  the  army,  March  5, 1792;  commanded  in  the  victory  over  the  Indians  in  the  battle  of  the  Maumee Hapids,  Aug.  20,  1794.  Died,  Dec.  15,  1796,  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Erie  in Pennsylvania. — Ibid.
§  1794,  Aug.  20.  Battle  of  the  ^Laumee  Rapids,  at  the  "Fallen  Timbers," fought  by  the  army  under  Maj. -Gen.  Anthony  Wayne,  against  2000  Indians, who  were  defeated  and  completely  routed.  Our  loss  was  '^^t,  killed  and  100 wounded. — Ibid.
86  MAXXKRS   AND    CUSTOMS.
■:^r
Governor  Harrison,'-'  on  ?iic  7th  of  November,  181  i,t  were  com- posed of  Shawanoes,  Pasttawatamies,  Kickapoos,  Wynebagoes, Taways,  and  a  few  Miiscioes,  amounting  in  all  to  one  hundred and  fifty,  agreeable  to  the  most  correct  information  that  could  be procured  from  the  IndiaDiv  tliat  were  in  the  action.  The  Indians lost  twenty-five  men  killed  in  the  action.  The  number  of  wounded has  not  been  ascertained.  This  is  the  last  action  that  was  fought between  the  Indians  and  the  whites.
The  Indians  and  whites  lived  in  peace  and  friendship  from  the treaty  of  Greenville,  which  was  held  in  1795,  until  the  first  raising of  the  Shawanoe  Prophet  which  was  in  1807,  from  that  time until  the  7th  November.  18 11.  the  time  that  the  Prophet's  fol- lowers fought  the  troops  under  the  command  of  Governor  Harri- son: that  treacherous  and  nefarious  scoundrel  has  been  fostered by  the  British  Go\"ernmenr..  and  caused  a  considerable  number  of the  North-Western  Indians  to  be  unfriendly  toward  the  United States,  and  occasionally  committed  depredations  of  murder  on our  Western  frontiers.
There  appears  to  have  been  no  separate  cause  for  each  cam- paign of  the  Indians  against  the  whites.  The  ^var  that  began  in 1774,  which  was  the  first  that  took  place  between  the  Indians and  the  Americans,  and  which  was  caused  by  the  repeated  ill- treatment  the  Indians  received  from  the  frontier  settlements  oi the  whites,  was  kept  up  by  the  Indians,  owing  to  the  great  influ- ence the  British  had  among  them.  This  influence  was  kept  up by  the  annual  supply  of  arms  and  ammunition,  which  the  Indians received  from  the  British  Government.
From  this  it  is  evident  ihat  if  the  United  States  had  got  pos- session of  the  Military  Posts  on  the  Lakes,  which  the  British Government  was  to  deliver  up  to  them  in  1783,  there  would  have. been  no  Indian  war  after  that  time.
THE    EMIGRATION    OF  THE    NORTH-WESTERN    INDIANS, AND   TIIEIK    GENERAL   CONDUCT.
The  Miamie  Nation  are  ihe  oldest  inhabitants  of  this  countr)-.
*  For  record  of  Gen.  Harrison,  see  page  52.
t  181 1,  Nov.  7.  RaUlc  of  Tip'iiecanqe  River,  near  its  continence  with  the Wabash,  fought  by  Battalion  of  Ehe  4th  infantry,  200  strong,  Kentucky  and Indiana  militia,  about  450,  under  Gov.  Wni.  H.  Harrison  of  Indiana  Terri- tory against  over  600  Indian  warriors  under  " The  Prophet,"  Our  loss  was 62  killed,  126  wounded;  the  Indian  loss  exceeded  150  killed, — leaving  from 36  to  40  dead  on  the  field.  — Ganiewr.
MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  8/
Froin.  whence  they  emigrated  is  not  known.  The  Eel  Ri\-ers, A\'eeas,  Piankeshaws,  and  Kaskaskees  are  all  branches  of  the Miamie  tribe,  and  all  speak  the  same  tongue.
The  Delewares  emigrated  to  this  country  from  the  East,  and are  called  by  other  Indians,  Elanabah,  or  people  from  the  sunrise.
The  Shawanoes  emigrated  to  this  country  from  West  Florida.
The  Wyandotts,  Chippawa}-s,  Ottaways,  Puttawatamies,  and Kickapoos  emigrated  from  the  North  and  North  ^Vest.
The  Wynebagoes  and  Melomenees,  who  at  present  inhabit"  tlie west  side  of  Lake  Michigan,  emigrated  from  tlie  West.
The  Socks,  Foxes,  Johwees,  and  Nottawessies  also  emigrated from  the  North  ^Vest.
There  is  a  material  difterence  in  the  language  of  the  difterent nations  of  Indians;  yet  there  is  but  little  or  no  difference  in  their customs  and  manners;  they  are  warm  friends,  but  most  inveterate enemies.  The  men  are  trained  up  to  hunting  and  going  to  war, whilst  all  the  laborious  work  is  left  for  the  women  to  do.
Each  nation  is  divided  into  villages,  and  each  village  has  one or  more  chiefs  attached  to  it,  according  to  its  size,  who  keep  their subjects  in  order  by  persecution,  as  arbitrary  power  is  never  made use  of  by  them  (except  in  cases  of  murder).  The  influence  of a  chief  seldom  extends  further  than  his  own  village.
Both  the  male  and  female  children  are  nurtured  in  such  a  man- ner as  is  best  calculated  to  endure  the  greatest  .hardships.  They are  compelled  to  bathe  their  bodies  in  cold  water  every  day,  and last  for  a  certain  length  of  time.  The  length  of  time  a  child  has to  fast  is  regulated  by  its  age.  A  child  that  is  eight  years  old will  fast  half  a  day,  and  one  that  is  twelve  or  sixteen  will  fast  a day.  The  person  that  is  fasting  has  its  face  blacked,  and  is  not permitted  to  wash  it  until  the  time  of  fasting  is  out.  The  face  of the  male  is  blacked  all  over;  that  of  the  female  on  the  cheeks only.  The  male  quits  this  ])ractice  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  it  is then  said  by  the  parents  that  his  education  is  complete,  and  he  is then  old  enough  to  be  a  man.  His  face  is  then  blacked  for  the last  time,  and  he  is  taken  a  mile  or  two  from  any  house,  where  he has  a  small  hut  built  for  him  out  of  bushes  or  weeds.  After  this, he  is  addressed  by  his  fadicr  or  guardian  in  the  following  words:
My  son,  it  has  pleased  all  the  Great  Spirits  that  live  above  the clouds,  and  all  those  that  live  on  the  earth,  that  you  should  live to  see  this  day;  they  have  all  witnessed  your  conduct  ever  since I  first  blacked  your  face;  they  know  whether  you  have  at  all times  strictly  adhered  to  the  advice  I  have  given  you;  and  I  hope they  will  reward  you  accordingly.  You  must  now  remain  here, imtil  myself  or  some  of  your  friends  come  to  you.
88  MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.
The  man  then  returns  home,  takes  his  gun  and  goes  a  hunting, while  his  son  is  left  five  or  six  days,  and  sometimes  eight  days, without  anything  to  eat  or  drink.  When  the  fether  or  guardian has  procured  meat  enough  for  a  feast,  he  invites  some  of  his neighbors  to  come  and  partake  of  what  he  has.  They  accom- pany him  to  where  his  son  has  been  staying  for  several  days;  the boy  is  then  taken  home,  where  he  is  immersed  in  cold  water,  his head  shaved  all  over  except  a  small  spot  on  the  top;  victuals  are then  given  him,  which  have  been  prepared  in  a  separate  vessel for  that  purpose.  After  he  is  done  eating,  a  looking-glass  is  given him,  and  a  bag  of  vermiHon  or  paint;  he  is  then  told  by  the company  that  he  is  a  man.  After  this,  he  is  considered  as  such by  the  people  of  the  village.  They  frequently  go  to  war  before being  declared  men  in  this  manner,  and  they  are  respected according  to  their  merit.
Immediately  after  a  boy"s  face  is  blacked,  which  generally  takes place  at  daybreak,  he  takes  his  bow  and  arrows  and  goes  to  the wood,  from  whence  he  does  not  return  until  the  usual  time  of washing  his  face  and  eating  comes  on.  I  have  accompanied  boys for  several  years  at  different  times,  when  their  faces  were  blacked, and  I  never  knew  a  single  instance  of  tlieir  eating  or  drinking while  in  this  situation,  or  without  the  knowledge  of  their  parents.
Their  minds  are  operated  on  by  fears,  as  they  are  made  to believe  that  if  they  eat  or  drink  while  their  face  is  black,  such  an offence  would  be  followed  by  immediate  punishment  from  the Great  vSpirit,  who  watclied  strictly  over  all  their  actions.
When  an   Indian  girl  arrives  at   the  age  of  puberty,  and  her monthly  discharges  or  catamenia  comes  on,  she  is  separated  from the  family,  and  a  small  hut  is  built  for  her,  some  distance  from the  house  where  her  parents  reside.     She  is  put  in  the  hut  pre- pared for  that  purpose,  where  she  remains  undl  the  menstrual discharge  ceases ;  during  which  time  no  person  is  allowed  to  visit or  keep  company  v/ith  her.     Victuals  are  cooked  in  a  separate kettle  at  a  fire  built  out  of  doors  for  that  purpose.     All  her  cook- ing utensils  and  clothing  are  considered  unclean  until  they  are washed  and  purified  for  the  purpose  of  using  herself  and  being made  use  of  by  others.     When  -  this  disease  leaves  her,   she   ' directed  to  bathe  herself  in  cold  water;  after  which,  a  sweat-ho- is built,  and  she  is  taken  into  it  by  her  mother,  or  some  r female  friend,  and  is  scarified  onlfer  legs  and  arnis  with  o of  sharp  flint;  after  this,  she  is  sweated  and  purified  for or  two,  and  then  admitted  into  the  family.
'J'his  practise  prevails  among  all  ages  of  the  women, systems  are  in  the  condition  above  mentioned.     It  is
^0
^[ANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  89
ner  that  the  systems  of  the  Indians  are  prepared  to  bear  hunger and  all  inclemencies  of  the  different  seasons.
If  a  woman  is  pregnant  when  traveling,  and  her  time  of  parturi- tion should  come  on,  she  will  stop  at  the  first  convenient  stream of  water,  where  she  will  be  delivered  of  her  child.  She  will  then wash  the  child  all  over  in  the  cold  water,  and  wrap  it  up  in  her blanket  or  any  old  clothing  she  may  have  along;  she  will  then wash  herself,  and  in  two  hours  be  ready  to  proceed  on  her  journey.
Polygamy  is  universally  admitted  among  the  Indians.  A  man may  have  as  many  wives  as  he  pleases,  and  can  change  them  as often  as  it  may  suit  his  own  views.  Young  men  are  instructed by  their  parents  to  get  as  many  wives  as  they  can,  but  never  to have  connexion  with  a  married  woman,  and  by  no  means  to involve  himself  or  his  friends  in  a  quarrel  with  their  neighbors.
Marriages  are  performed  in  three  different  ways.  ist.  If  the male  and  female  agree,  they  may  cohabit  with  each  other  without any  further  ceremony.  2d.  AVhen  a  young  man  loves  a  girl,  and she  will  not  consent  to  have  him  without  he  first  obtains  the  con- sent of  her  parents,  which  must  be  done  with  a  present  adequate to  the  character  of  the  girl.  If  his  present  is  received  by  the  girl's friends,  the  marriage  is  fixed:  if  the  present  is  returned,  it  is understood  that  they  are  not  willing  for  the  match.  3d.  This  is considered  by  much  the  most  honorable  and  binding  on  the  par- ties concerned.  AVhen  an  Indian  has  a  son  that  he  wishes  to  be married  to  a  good  and  a  virtuous  woman,  he  assembles  his  friends and  relations,  and  consults  with  them  what  woman  his  son  sha.ll marry.  When  a  choice  is  made,  the  relations  of  the  young  man collect  what  presents  they  think  are  sufficient  for  the  occasion,  and take  them  to  the  parents  of  the  girl  or  intended  bride;  they  make known  their  business,  leave  the  articles,  and  return  home  without an  answer.  The  relations  of  the  girl  then  assemble  together,  and consult  each  other  on  the  subject.  If  they  agree  to  the  match, tliey  collect  suitable  presents,  dress  the  girl  in  her  best  clothing, and  take  her  to  the  persons  that  made  application  for  the  match, where  she  and  the  ])resents  are  left.  The  marriage  is  then  con- sidered complete,  as  all  the  ceremony  for  the  occasion  has  been regularly  gone  through.  But  if  the'  friends  of  the  girl  or  herself do  not  approve  of  the  proposals,  the  presents  that  were  given hy  the  young  mans  relations  are  reLujned,  which  is  considered  a refusal.
MILITARY    DISCllT.INE.
^Vhen  a  warrior  wnshes  to  go  to  war,  he  informs  one  or  two  of his  most  intimate  friends  of  his  intentions  and  asks  them  to  join
90  MANNERS   AND   CUSTOMS.
him.  The  war  party  is  then  formed  by  their  inviting  as  many men  as  they  wish  the  party  to  consist  of.  Their  intentions  are kept  secret  t'rom  all  the  rest,  as  the  person  that  is  to  command the  party  wishes  such  men  only  as  will  at  all  times  obey  his  orders. After  the  party  is  completely  organized,  they  lea\-e  the  village secretly  in  the  night.  When  they  encamp,  the  captain  or  com- mander places  the  oldest  men  in  front  of  the  camp,  and  the youngest  in  the  rear;  the  former  do  all  the  hunting  for  the party  and  keeps  out  a  strict  watch  for  the  enemy;  the  latter  do all  the  cooking,  making  of  fires,  mending  moccasins,  etc.  Each party  has  a  small  budget,  which  they  call  the  war  budget,  which contains  something  belonging  to  each  person  in  the  party,  that represents  some  wild  animal,  (that  is  to  say,)  a  snake's  skin,  a  buf- falo's tail,  a  wolfs  head,  a  mink's  skin,  or  the  feathers  of  some extraordinary  bird.  This  budget  is  considered  sacred,  and  is always  carried  by  some  person  chosen  for  that  purpose,  who always  marches  in  front  and  lead>  the  party  to  the  enemy.  He is  never  passed  on  the  march  by  any  of  the  company  while  he has  the  budget  on  his  back.  AVhen  the  i)arty  halts,  the  budget  is laid  on  the  ground  in  front  of  them,  and  no  person  is  permitted to  pass  it  without  orders  from  the  property  authority.  No  person is  allowed  to  sit  or  lay  his  pack  on  a  log,  neither  is  any  one allowed  to  talk  of  women  while  they  are  going  toward  the  enemy. AVhen  a  four-legged  animal  is  killed  by  the  party,  the  heart  is  care- fully preserved  by  a  jjcrson  appointed  for  that  purpose.  When they  encamp,  a  fire  is  built  alongside  of  the  war  budget,  and  the heart  cut  in  small  pieces  and  burned  in  it.  The  sticks  or  spits upon  which  they  roast  their  meat  is  split  half  down  the  middle, and  then  the  meat  is  placed  in  the  split;  the  stick  is  to  be  sharp- ened at  but  one  end,  which  is  to  be  stuck  in  the  ground.  No person  is  allowed  to  step  across  the  fire,  or  walk  round  it  in  any other  way  than  that  in  which  the  sun  traverses.
It  will  readily  be  imagined  that  the  order  observed  among  the Indians  when  going  to  war  is  completely  calculated  to  prevent accident  or  surprises,  and  keep  up  good  discipline.  When  the enemy  is  to  be  attacked,  the  war  budget  is  opened,  and  each  man takes  out  his  skin,  or  corpenyomer,  or  war  bag,  and  ties  it  on that  ])art  of  his  body  which  he  A\as  directed  to  do  by  his  ances- tors in  such  like  cases.
When  an  Indian  attacks  his  enemy,  he  is  generally  stripped naked  (except  what  is  called  his  breech -cloth  and  moccasins). His  body  is  painted  in  different  colors,  though  generally  red. After  the  action  is  over,  each  person  returns  his  war  bag  to  the commander  of  the  party,  who  takes  the  same  .skin  or  cloth  that
MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  9 1
they  were  formerly  wrapped  in,  and  carefully  wraps  them  up again,  and  gives  the  budget  to  the  man  that  took  the  first  prisoner or  scalp,  who  leads  the  party  home  in  triumph.  This  is  considered as  a  record  of  his  bravery  in  the  nation,  and  consequently  great lionor  is  attached  to  it.  Should  there  be  more  than  one  of  the enemy  killed  or  taken  prisoner,  the  person  that  gets  the  first  scalp or  takes  the  first  prisoner  is  entitled  to  the  first  honor.
\Mien  the  party  returns  home,  the  war  budget  is  hung  in  front of  the  door  of  the  person  that  carried  it  on  the  march  against  the enemy.  It  is  sufiered  to  remain  there  thirty  or  forty  days,  and some  one  of  the  party  goes  every  night  and  sings  and  dances where  it  hangs:  particularly  those.,  that  have  taken  a  prisoner  or scalp.
^^'hen  the  person  that  commanded  the  party  thinks  i:)roper,  he assembles  the  party,  and  a  feast  is  prepared  by  them  for  all  the people  of  the  village.  They  sing  and  dance  all  night.  Those  of the  party  that  did  the  enemy  most  damage  serves  out  the  feast to  the  as5eml)ly.  After  this  is  over,  the  war  budget  is  opened  by the  commander,  and  each  person  of  the  party  takes  out  his  cor- penyomer  or  war  bag,  and  the  party  is  dissolved.
THEIR    RELIGION    AND    MODE    OE    WORSHIP.
Every  Indian  family  has  one  or  more  of  the  Sriins  or  images above  mentioned,  which  is  called  in  the  ^vliamie  language  Corpe- nohor  Corpenyomer.  It  is  those  instruments  that  they  consider sacred,  and  accordingly  worship  them.  They  say  when  the  Great •"Spirit  formed  them,  that  he  placed  those  things  in  their  posses- sion and  told  them  if  they  would  worship  them  that  they  would live  to  an  immense  age,  and  always  remain  happy;  consequently, some  one  member  of  each  respective  family  pays  reverence  to those  divine  images  monthly.  After  singing  all  night  such  songs as  he  has  been  instructed  to  do  on  such  occusions  by  his  ances- tors, which  may  be  called  religious  songs;  he  then  ijrepares'  a kettle  of  victuals  and  a  few  pipes  of  tobacco,  and  invites  his neighbors  to  come  and  partake  of  what  he  has  prepared  for  the occasion.  When  the  compau}'  has  collected,  he  tells  them  the tause  of  his  calling  them  together.  The  company  then  proceeds to  eating,  with  a  great  deal  of  ceremony  too  tedious  to  mention. J-ach  jjerson  will  throw  a  small  piece  of  the  \'ictuals  in  the  fire before  he  j>uts  any  in  his  mouth.
'I'here  are  but  few  Indians  that  will  give  an  opinion  respecting ^  future  state.  They  say  that  those  things  are  only  enquired  after l^y  fools  and  the  white  people.     Some  of  them  have  told  me  that
92  MANNERS    AND    CUSTOMS.
they  believed  there  were  two  other  worlds.  One  was  mtended  as the  place  of  residence  for  the  spirits  of  the  good  people  on  this earth;  and  the  other  for  the  spirits  of  those  that  w^re  bad,  and that  the  bad  ones  were  always  assisting  the  evil  spirit  to  do  ill, v.'hile  the  good  ones  resided  with  the  good  spirit,  and  remained in  peace  and  quietness.
I  once  asked  a  very  distinguished  chief  what  he  supposed  was necessary  to  constitute  a  good  and  a  great  man.  He  replied, that  a  good  fother,  a  good  husband,  a  good  neighbor,  a  good warrior,  and  a  lover  of  his  nation,  was  all  in  his  opinion  that  was necessary  for  a  man  to  possess,  to  fulfil  the  expectations  of  the Great  Spirit,  \\ho  placed  us  on  this  earth;  though,  the  Indians generally  appear  to  care  but  little  about  a  future  state.  They  are only  anxious  to  live  to  an  old  age  in  this  world.
CEREMONIES   AMONG    THE    INDIANS   WHEN    ONE   OF THEM    DIE.
When  an  Indian  dies,  his  relations  black  their  faces  and  fast  for a  certain  time,  which  time  is  regulated  by  the  head  of  the  family. When  it  is  known  that  an  Indian  has  died,  the  neighbors  assem- ble and  bury  the  dead,  after  which  the  heads  of  such  families  that are  friendly  disposed  toward  the  deceased  person  and  their  sur- viving friends,  take  some  article  of  clothing,  and  address  the friends  of  the  deceased  in  the  following  words:
P'riends:  We  are  sorry  that  it  has  pleased  the  Great  Spirit  to call  one  of  your  family  from  you,  though  this  is  not  uncommon among  us  ])eople  of  this  world.  Our  friend  has  only  gone  on  the journey,  a  few  days  before  us,  which  we  shall  all  have  to  travel; we  have  therefore  come  to  invite  you  to  mourn  no  longer,  and  to cover  the  body  of  our  departed  friend.
After  this,  they  all  return  home.  The  articles  of  clothing  are left  and  preserved  for  the  person  that  may  be  adopted  in  place  oi the  deceased.
THEIR    MODE   OF  ADOI'TINC;  A  LIVING    PERSON    IN    PLACE OF   ONE    THAT    HAS    DIED.
When  an  Indian  loses  one  of  his  relations,  he  believes  that  if his  place  is  not  filled  by  adoption,  that  more  of  his  friends  Avill  die.
If  the  deceased  is  a  male,  one  of  his  most  intimate  male  friends is  chosen  to  fill  the  vacancy.  If  a  female,  one  of  her  most  inti- mate female  friends  is  also  chosen  to  fill  the  vacancy.  If  the deceased  is  a  person  of  respectal)ility,  it  frequently  hap[)ens  that
I.
r>/.
MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  .  93
two  persons  are  chosen  to  fill  the  vacancy.  After  everything  is prepared,  the  person,  or  persons,  to  be  adopted  is  sent  for,  when the  ceremony  begins.  If  the  deceased  was  a  warrior,  the  adop- tion is  exhibited  by  the  warriors  of  the  village,  who  assemble  at the  house  of  the  deceased.
They  commence  by  dancing  the  war-dance  and  singing  the  war- song  in  rotation.  The  warriors  go  through  all  the  difterent  ma- nojuvres  that  is  customary  when  engaged  with  an  enemy;  after which,  each  one  reports  to  the  assembly  the  number  of  actions  he has  been  in,  and  the  number  of  scalps  and  prisoners  he  has  taken.
During  the  time  the  warriors  are  dancing,  they  occasionally  give the  same  yells  and  repeat  the  same  words  they  did  when  they were  in  battle.  All  the  while  there  is  a  constant  yelling  kept  up by  the  assembly.  When  a  warrior  has  gone  through  such  of  his exploits  as  he  thinks  proper,  he  hands  the  war-club  to  some  other warrior,  and  sits  down.  The  other  rises  up  and  repeats  as  many of  his  war  exploits  as  he  thinks  proper.  In  this  way  the  dance is  continued  until  each  warrior  of  the  villa2;e  is  called  on  to  relate his  war  exploits.  Some  are  called  on  two  or  three  times  during the  dance.  The  assembly  is  then  dismissed  by  the  speaker  of the  friend  of  the  deceased,  telling  them  that  the  hearts  of  the relations  of  the  dead  are  glad.
The  person  or  persons  adopted  sits  among  the  relations  of  the deceased  during  the  dance.  After  the  dance  is  over,  they  are invited  by  their  new  relations  to  a  private  place,  where  they receive  evervthincr  that  belongjed  to  the  deceased,  also  the  articles that  were  given  by  neighbors  by  way  of  a  donation  m  adoption. They  are  then  told  that  they  are  one  of  the  family,  and  must  con- sider themselves  as  such,  and  that  they  are  entitled  to  the  same authority  and  respect  in  the  nation  that  the  person  was  when living,  whose  place  they  fill.
When  a  common  man  or  woman  or  child  dies,  the  adoption  is exhibited  by  a  few  persons  of  both  sexes,  by  playing  at  some favorite  game  of  the  deceased.  If  it  was  a  man  that  died,-  by shooting  at  a  mark,  running  a  foot-race,  or  some  other  game.  If H  woman,  by  playing  some  game  she  was  fondest  of
'niElK   CUSTOM    WHEN   VISITING    THE  GRAVE   OR  GRAVES OE    THEIR    DECEASE!)-  RELATIONS.
When  an  Indian  goes  to  the  grave  of  his  deceased  friend  or relation,  he  addresses  himself  to  the  grave,  as  though  the  corpse I'J  it  was  living.  He  relates  every  misfortune  that  has  happened •  n  the  family  since  the  death  of  the  person  whom  he  supposes  he
94  MANNERS   AND    CUSTOMS.
is  speaking  to;  after  which  he  leaves  a  piece  of  tobacco,  some victuals,  or  spirituous  Hquor.  if  he  has  any,  and  departs.
The  Indians  are  an  indolent  race  of  beings,  consequently  they are  fond  of  any  kind  of  amusement  that  will  serve  to  pass  away their  time  and  make  them  merry.  The\'  are  very  fond  of  gam- bhng  and  dancing.  They  have  a  variety  of  games  to  play  at,  too tedious  to  mention,  though  the  game  at  jNIoccasin  is  most  gener- ally practised  among  them.  They  are  remarkably  honorable  in their  gambling  debts,  and  will  strip  the  shirt  oft'  their  backs  to pay  a  debt  incurred  by  gambling.  They  also  have  a  variety  of dances.  The  morning  dance  commences  in  the  evening  and  con- tinues until  the  following  morning,  at  which  time  there  is  a  feast prepared  for  the  company.  The  outward  dance  is  performed  by a  certain  sect  of  Indians,  which  is  supposed  to  possess  super-  |
natural  powers,  so  that  they  can  destroy  their  neighbors  property or  life  at  any  time  they  please,  without  being  discovered  by  the person  to  whom  the  injury  is  done  or  any  one  else.  All  persons that  enter  this  society  are  admitted  with  the"  strictest  ceremony.  f
It  is  common  for  each  person  who  dances  to  have  an  otter  skin.  |
The  eldest  members  of  the  society  place  themselves  in  the  mid-  •
die  of  the  floor,  and  the  dance  is  then  opened  by  their  singing  I
the  songs  of  the  society.      A  circle  is  instantly  formed  around  |
those  that  are  singing,  and  each  person  has  an  otter  skin  in  his  |
hand  when  he   commences  dancing.     After  a  few  minutes  has  {
elapsed,  some  one  of  the  company  makes  a  noise  hke  an  otter,  |
shakes  his  skin,  and  walks  or  dances  around  on  the  inside  of  the  f
circle.      He  then,  with  a  sudden  motion,  points  his  skin  at  some  ^
one  of  the  comi)any,  who  screams  out,  and  falls  down  as  though  !
he  had  been  shot  with  a  ball;  in  a  few  minutes  he  recovers,  and  |
handles  his  skin  in  turn,  pretending  to  laugh  up  the  ball  he  was  ;
shot  with,  when  it  appears  that  the  bullet  is  in  his  mouth;  he then  puts  the  nose  of  the  otter  skin  to  his  mouth,  when  it  is  sup- posed that  his  peace  is  loaded;  he  then  goes  around  the  circle  as before,  and  shoots  at  who  he  pleases.  In  this  way,  the  dance  is continued  until  the  managers  of  the  society  think  proper  to  break  .
it  up.     No  member  can  quit  the  dance  until  the  whole  com})any  |
is  dismissed.        \  :  '       \
The  members  of  this  society  were  formerly  treated  with  great respect  by  their  neighbors:  button  the  contrary,  they  are  at  pres-  .
ent  treated  with  as  much  disrepect  as  they  formerly  were  respected.  j
The  begging  dance  is  generally  performed  by  the  young  men and  boys,  who  dress  like  warriors  and  go  about  through  the  vil- lages singing  war  songs.  It  is  customary  for  the  head  of  every family,  whose  house  they  dance  at,  to  give  them  something.     This
MA^^'ERS   AND    CUSTOMS.  95
is  the  dance  that  is  generally  performed  when  they  visit  a  white person.     There  are  a  number  of  '■'  ^^  *  '^
the  whites  do,  though  they  are  not  so  tenacious  of  it  as  the whites.  They  are  nuicli  more  hospitable  to  their  friends,  neigh- bors, and  visitors  than  the  whites.
The  Indians  have  little  or  no  laws,  no  coercive  power,  nor  any kind  of  government.  Their  most  important  combats  are  the internal  sensation  of  right  and  wrong.  When  an  Indian  commits a  crime  which  is  not  ]nmishable  by  death,  he  is  treated  with  con- tempt and  excluded  from  society.
The  Indians  believe  that  thunder,  lightning,  and  all  other  natu- ral disturbances  of  this  world,  are  distinct  and  independent  powers or  beings,  and  consequently  worship  them  accordingly.
The  Pow-wowers  or  Priests  were  formerly  in  high  estimation amongst  the  Indians,  as  it  was  believed  that  they  were  the  agents of  the  different  great  powers  or  spirits  that  govern  the  universe, and  that  they  had  power  to  kill  or  save,  as  they  pleased.
Those  supposed  inspired  beings  generally  act  as  doctors,  and it  is  not  uncommon  for  them  to  extract  a  hair  ball  on  the  whisker of  a  bear,  a  wolf,  or  a  panther,  from  the  body  or  joint  of  their patients  (or  at  least  make  them  believe  so).  They  go  through the  village  early  in  the  morning,  preaching  and  telling  the  people what  appears  most  advisable  for  them  to  employ  themselves  at during  the  day.  Those  Pow-wowers,  Priests,  or  Doctors  are  not so  much  respected  at  present  as  they  were  formerly.
The  present  mode  of  burying  the  dead  among  the  Indians appears  to  have  existed  through  all  ages,  tribes,  and  conditions. Some  lay  the  dead  body  on  the  top  of  the  earth  and  make  a  crib or  pen  over  them  with  logs,  and  cover  it  with  bark;  others  dig graves  as  white  people  do,  they  then  lay  the  corpse  in  the  grave, cover  it  with  bark,  and  then  all  over  with  earth;  others  again  will make  a  coffin  out  of  strong  boards,  in  which  they  will  place  the corpse,  and  hang  it  up  in  the  top  of  a  tree.  It  is  customary  for them  to  bury  as  much  of  the  deceased's  property  with  the  dead body  as  can  conveniently  be  placed  in  the  grave  or  coffin  with them.  They  frequently  put  a  piece  of  bread  or  meat  and  a  carrot of  totjacco  under  the  head  of  the  person  to  be  interred,  as  they believe  they  will  be  in  need  of  some  refreshment  on  their  journey. They  generally  celebrate  the  death  of  a  distinguished  chief  or '•varrior  by  drinking,  feasting,  dancing,  and  singing.
The  Indians  are  subject  to  all  the  different  diseases  that  the ^'hitcs  are  (the  gout  not  excepted).
f^^^
*-t-4-*-i^*'t-^
J'^rgu^^^lJts^oncAf^^ede^j^^^:::'-
•^'^C\tml)cx  %tt^eutt}-BiiH\t-^'
.jk^-j^
;  -,«.i5t — A«_  »uC  _  .^l't  -,„^„s,*.  ^  ^  .  ^A,„  ,  -iS*,    '**.  ^^
'•-t-JLt±^  •»,•♦:!:»  ''"■"'cyj^-'t^'*  ♦^  *^  "f'''  ^  ■^-^ •;-'.■•*'  ♦■♦♦-«^>*^-»-s^4-«-*-*-*'»-W*-~r >>-■»•  -^  *-^-r-*-«^'f'r*-*-u'^*-
^€^#
Hiram  IV.  Beckwith.
*■■' '«
/-:T*  Foi"  v^-^.t^.iuji^ac,
!CC       ^liCt«
Last  Pa^.
Emhrac
t":^  Hi^tor^  of  My  Life     By  (ohk   R. v^   .  ■
aouePa^.:p„     ,.-    ;^^',^^^^^<=="P^«eI"esx  added.     rM,.. -   ^i-^.-.  Ip    4^o;  Svo.      xSvs.     Edition  of  i.a.or.:..      V, T'
olume  re  ■
-     Comr.: ly  pot
ieted  ia
avion  a  ra
ire  fGrjv!.. -  fa  nookj
:-ives
-of
aic :  of
  em
^  %'»*?"  iirst.  edition, .  ud
.     ,,.       -     -■■-;  -■  •    ^  '-Oie
t,  the  present  volume ii? tLe  reprint  of  an  old- -.  Ihe  extensive  xav^:--^ ■>ro^emeiit,  public  liie ,  ■naturallytrareraed  iu  j
:::^:tacled
"rtlueii  1v
^^;^  CoiTi "My  Owi.
lite,"    to      f:-
liearlv  h'- life.    A«'- in  Ib-U;  ;:  - member Oovcruor  .
seatdnrmg-  se^
sioiier;  atid  "fir-  •  '
m'eBeiat  eentur
nycst  powerfrj  • ^i  traijsition  ; Osm  Times"  tt
11^.11  veiuTascitanges,  and  ?,
'•^^3    4:
n  --..unt  of  the-  L.fe'^i.f '"''''7-^'°""   "^■"   LOVEJOY.
-di  Co.;:'"  iPiLl^r  """i  f'\°"S^  SETTI.E.MENT
i)»  in  7?i7  ;,:
II.)
^>KETCH  OF  ENOCH  LONG portrait/.     By  JJ.  f-v>-   p    ,,.      ^-^i    .  •,
Pare:-,    :-.■   ^...        .c.  ,
firsiand  o-v  ..v  „r  ..  ...  _  ^^^'  ^'  ^^i^i^H:  Edwards,  C^J.  of  Ct.  of
.  senators  hvA  third  gov.  of  ii! SDS,  ex-Alt V- Gen,  ofliL  E.^:' 'I  Dan'!  P.  C-xk,  aiad  :.o  fe.
^  -'^"-    ^'     ».A«C     iViJ>5».    Of
fin«^o:.y,^v,cflli.TV;.,.eofrhef5r.t
■vr.  t:
^"3<-  If
FERGUS'     HISTORICAL     SERIES,     No.     2  7.
THE
ILLINOIS  AND  INDIANA  INDIANS
BY
HIRAM  \V.  BECKWITH,
THE
NEV/BERRY
LIBRARY
CHICAGO
C  H  i  C'A  G  O  : I  E  R  (;  U  S    P  R  I  N  T  I  N  G   C  O  M  P  A  N  Y,
ILLINOIS    STREET. 1884.
//.!(!/ 1  ..
Entered  according  to  Act  of  Coni^^ress,  in  the  year   18S4,  by
Fkrci/s  ]'r!NI(.\<;  Comi-anv, In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  ^Va.shington.
^^^^
ox
LETTER   FROM  THE  AUTHOR.
Danville,  Ija..,  Nov.  5,  1883.
My  Dear  Fergus: — Herewith  is  dte  v.ind-up.  The  Introductory  to  the chapter  on  "Illinois  and  Indiana  IndiaTis",  also  a  foot-note  on  Judge  Hall,  to be  put  as  marked.  I  could  find  no  other  place  where  I  could  place  it  with any  propriety.  It  cost  me  more  time  aiid  labor  to  chip  it  out  than  any  other side-spur  I  have  undertaken,  I  have  one  of  the  very  few  complete  sets  of  his publications  extant,  which  I  have  beea  years  in  collecting,  and  they  contain '"lots  of  good  things."  I  revised  and  condensed  the  note  two  or  three  times and  have,  for  brevity's  sake,  Sfjueezed  everything  out  of  it  except  dry  facts. Yet  I  hope  that  even  these  may  revive  or  keep  in  memory  the  debt  Illinois and  the  West  owe  to  Judge  Hall.  The  statute  of  limitations  has  ran  too  long against  him,  John  M.  Peck,  and  a  few  others  who  might  be  named;  while semi-annual  dividends  of  praise  have  been  regularly,  often  in  advance,  to much  less  deserving  men.  •■
The  proof-sli[;s  I  return  O.  K.'d  with  corrections  of  my  own  and  the  adop- tion, with  thanks,  of  tho^e  queried  by  the  proof-reader,  whom  I  take  to  be your  father.  I  v/ill  be  obli^;ed  if  you  will  lay  away  the  proof-slips  and  page- proofs  for  me  to  have  when  I  come  up,  which  will  be  about  the  21st  instant, when  1  expect  to  remain  two  or  three  days.
1  hope  the  work  will  now  soon  be  out,  and  that  you  will  get  back  more  than your  money  and  labor  on  the  venture.  I  feel  that  the  matter  is  as  reliable as  to  facts,  dates,  names,  places,  etc.,  a.s  painstaking  research  can  well  make it.  Every  statement  has  been  compared  and  verified  with  all  original  authori- ties, as  well  as  the  several  collators  U}X>n  the  same  subject  that  I  could  com- mand for  reference.  Nothing  has  been  retained  that  would  not  bear  these tests;  and,  as  a  sequence,  many  pleading  fictions  have  been  discarded. Should  you  ever  subsoil  in  this  field  of  inquiry,  you  will  be  amazed  at  the carelessness  and  the  discrepancies,  the  prejudices,  and  the  pure  fancies  of writers  upon  our  aboriginal  history  that  you  will  unearth  on  every  hand,  until, in  the  course  of  your  investigations,  you  will  come  to  doubt  if  much  true hi.-:.tory  is  to  be  found  for  your  pains  at  ]a.,t.  Yours  truly,
H.  W.  Beckwith.
INTRODUCTORY.
The  account  given  of  the  Indians,  in  the  following  chapters,  is condensed  from  a  volume  prepared  by  the  writer  four  years  ago, with  some  new  matter  added  in  the  revision.  It  is  mostly  the result  of  his  gleanings  over  a  wide  field  of  antiquated  books  of travel  and  maps  long  since  out  of  print,  or  copies  of  manuscript- correspondence  of  a  private  or  official  character,  little  of  which is  accessible  to  the  general  reader.
Our  knov/ledge  of  the  aboriginal  occupants  of  this  country  is fragmentary,  at  best.  They  kept  no  records  and  had  no  histori- ans. The  little  we  know  of  them  is  to  be  found  in  the  writings of  persons  who,  if  not  their  natural  enemies,  had  little  interest  in doing  them  justice.  As  a  rule,  early  travelers  and  observers  have alluded  to  their  capabilities,  their  manners  and  customs,  only  in an  incidental  way.  We  know  but  very  little  of  the  Indians  who formerly  occupied  the  territory  between  the  Alleghanies  and  Mis- sissippi; and  the  litile  information  that  has  been  preserved  con- cerning them  is  so  scattered  through  the  volumes  of  authors  who wfote  from  other  motives,  or  at  difterent  dates,  or  of  different nations,  without  taking  thought  to  discriminate,  that  no  satisfac- tory account  of  any  particular  tribe  is  now  attainable.  The  best that  may  be  done  is  to  select  such  of  these  disjointed  scraps  as bear  evidence  of  being  the  most  reliable,  and  arrange  them  in something  like  chronological  order.  In  his  endeavor  to  do  this, the  writer  has  had  no  theories  to  bolster  up  or  morbid  sentiments to  gratify.  He  has  only  quoted  or  condensed  from  authorities regarded  as  standard;  and  this  without  prejudice  in  favor  of  or against  the  people  whose  history  he  has  attempted  to  briei^y  give.
The  mental  and  physical  training  of  the  two  races,  their  habits ^nd  purposes  of  life  were  so  radically  difterent  that  they  could not  peaceably  occupy  the  sanie  territory  in  common.  Either  the red  hunter  must  quit  the  chase  and  give  up  his  nomadic  life,  or the  civilized  white  must  degenenate  into  a  savage.  Hence  the Indian,  being  the  weaker  party,  gave  away  before  the  operations f>f  an  inexorable  law,  the  severity  of  which  could,  at  best,  have been  only  tempered.  It  was  but  obeying  a  natural  law,  inherent in  humanity  everywhere,  that  he  defended  his  country  against  the '-■licroachrnents  of  another  race;  and  the  strife  between  the  two
VI  INTRODUCTION.  •''■        '
for  its  possession,  funiishes  material  for  many  thrilling  events  con- nected with  its  history.
In  spite  of  whatever  official  injunctions  to  the  contrary,  the Indians  were  as  systematically  debauched  with  whisky,  contami- nated with  vices,  and  as  persistently  overreached  by  the  servants of  Count  Frontenac,  governor  of  New  France,  over  two  centu- ries ago,  as  they  have  been,  from  that  time  until  now,  by  the agents  and  traders  of  every  successive  executive  in  charge, whether  French  or  British,  dictating  at  Quebec  or  New  York,  or American,  directing  from  Washington  City.  And  the  complaints of  the  early  Jesuit  priests  against  these  wrongs  were  as  unavail- ing in  correcting  them  as  the  protests  of  President  Jefifersonj  Gov. Harrison,  Gen.  Cass,  Judge  Hall.'''  and  other  good-minded  men
■'  The  writer  feels  it  a  duty  to  recur  to  the  obligation  tlie  West,  and  partic- ularly Illinois,  owes  to  the  memory  of  the  late  Judge  James  Hall,  the  pioneer of  our  early  literature,  who  was  born  at  Philadelphia,  Penn.,  Aug.  19,  1793; served  in  the  war  of  1S12,  on  the  Niagara  frontier;  was  with  Com.  Stephen Decatur  in  the  expedition  against  Algiers  in  1815;  resuming  his  law  studies at  Pittsburg  in  iSiS;  and  in  1S20,  located  at  Shawneetown,  111.,  and  began to  practise,  Ihe  next  year,  he  was  made  States  attorney  for  the  judicial  cir- cuit, embracing  some  ten  counties  in  Southeastern  Illinois.  This  section  \vas at  that  time  overrun  with  horse-thieves,  slave-stealers,  counterfeiters,  and  des- peradoes, many  of  whom  had  fled  hither  from  other  States  to  escape  punish- ment for  their  crimes.  ]Iy  their  numbers  and  organized  bold  actions,  they  set all  law  at  defiance,  and  terrorized  over  honest  citizens.  Mr.  llall,  aided  by the  lawrabiding,  prosecuted  these  criminals  with  such  unrelenting  vigor  thcit lie  broke  up  their  gangs,  aivl  restored  secuiity  to  life  and  property.  In  1S25, he  was  elected  judge  of  the  same  circuit — hence  the  prefix  to  his  name.  iht honor  was  all  the  more  creditable  to  his  abilities  and  moral  wortli,  when  it  is remembered  that  the  legislature  (of  1824-5)  conferring  it,  was  largely  "anti- convention",  while  he  was  classed  with  the  "convention-party",  as'those  were designated  who  had  favored  the  call  of  a  convention  to  so  amend  the  consti- tution as  to  convert  Illinois  into  a  slave-state.  [F/^/f-  "Ford's  History  ot Illinois."]  His  term  was  short;  for'  the  next  legislative  session  of  1826-7, repealed  the  law  creating  the  office  and  turned  out  all  of  the  judges  holding commi-ssions  under  it.  Within  the  next  two  or  three  years,  he  removed  to Vandalia,  then  the  State  capital,  where  he  early  associated  with  Robt.  JMack- well,  State-printer,  in  i^ubli.ihing  '/'he  •lUiiiois  Intellit^cnier.  The  legislatuie of  1830-I  elected  him  State  treasurer.  In  the  meantime,  he  and  Mr.  J>Iack- wcU  arranged  to  bring  out  "The  Illinois  Monthly  Magazine",  it  being  tlie first  attempt  at  i)eri(jdical  literature  in  the  State.
Judge  Hall's  rejnitalion  as  a  writer  was  already  established.  Beginning  in 1820,   many  of   his  contributions,   (k-,criptive  of   the   West   and    its    people,
IXTRODUCTIOX.  Vll
in  later  limes.  Tlie  chronic  "Indian  Question"  is  no  nearer  a settlement  now  than  it  was  in  colonial  days,  and  it  never  will  be until  either  the  unfortunate  subjects  of  it  are  all  dead,  or  we  shall have  abandoned  the  prolonged  attempt  to  reconcile  the  indul- gences of  a  remorseless  greed  with  the  ways  of  justice  and hunianity.
The  remnants  of  tribes,  who  formerly  owned  the  country  east of  the  Missouri,  were  sent  beyond  that  river  to  live,  mostly,  by hunting  in  competition  with  other  natives  in  regions  where  game had  already  become  scarce.     The  lapse  of  time  has  neutralized
appeared  in  "The  Portfolio",  a  monthly,  conducted  by  his  brother,  John  E. Hall,  at  Philadelphia,  from  which  they  were  copied  by  papers  in  America  and England,  and  received  a  wide  circulation.  A  residence,  afterward,  of  several years  in  the  country  described,  so  enlarged  his  opportunities  that,  to  a  num- ber of  the  original  articles  was  added  much  new  matter,  and  the  whole  was published  in  1828  in  London,  England,  in  a  volume  entitled  "  Letters  from the  West.  Containing  Sketches  of  Scenery,  Manners,  Customs,  and  Anec- dotes connected  with  the  Eirst  Settlements  of  the  Western  Sections  of  the United  States  ",  etc.
The  first  number  of  the  "Illinois  Magazine  "  appeared  for  October,  1830. It  run  for  two  years.  The  second  volume  was  published  in  part  at  St.  Louis and  part  at  Cincinnati;  owing  to  the  difficulty  of  getting  material  and  labor at  Vandalia,  which,  at  that  time,  stood  on  the  verge  of  a  primitive  popula- tion, isolated  from  the  literary  world,  and  not  possessing  even  the  conven- iences of  country-roads  that  were  passable  for  more  than  a  few  months  during the  year.  Commencing  with  January,  1833,  Judge  Hall  resumed  his  periodi" cal  at  Cincinnati  under  the  name  of  "The  Western  Monthly  Magazine;  a Continuation  of  the  Illinois  Monthly  Magazine",  remaining  with  it  here  for three  years.  In  1833,  he  went  to  Cincinnati  and  resided  thereuntil  his  death, July  5,  1868.  His  other  principal  literary  labors  are  as  follows:  "Legends of  the  West",  1832;  second  edition  the  next  year;  "The  Soldier's  Bride", ^^33',  "The  Harp's  Head,  a  Legend  of  Kentucky",  1833;  "Tales  of  the Border",  1835;  "Sketches  of  History,  Life,  and  ^Lanners  in  the  West",  1835; ** Statistics  of  the  West",  etc.,  1836.  This  last  was  reissued  in  1838  (from the  same  plates,  with  a  few  pages  of  addenda  relating  to  steamboat  naviga- tion), under  the  better  title  of  "Notes  on  the  Western  States.  Containing Descriptive  Sketches  of  their  Soil,  Climate,  Resources,  and  Scenery";  sub- ^tantially  the  same  matter  appeared  in  1848;  under  the  name  of  "The  West; its  Commerce  and  Navigation";  "  Romance  of  Western  History",  1857;  re- published in  1871,  by  Rol>ert  Clarke  &  Co.,  Cincinnati,  O.,  with  fine  portrait of  author;  "The  Wilderness  and  the  War-Path",  1845;  republi.^hed  in  Lon- don in  1846.  The  last  two  run  into  previous  volumes,  embracing  much  of f-he  same  matter;  while  the  whole  are  largely  made  up  of  papers  drawn  from
Vlll  INTRODUCTION.  f
the  bitterness  of  the  conquest  that  ended  with  their  final  removal  |
from  our  midst;  so  that  now  we  ought  to  accord  tliem  the  even-  f
handed  justice  to  which  they  are  historically  entitled.
When  attainable,  the  writer  has  preserved  the  aboriginal  names of  lakes,  rivers,  Indian  villages,  and  other  historical  localities coming  within  range  of  the  subjects  treated.  In  the  choice  of material  he  has  also  endeavored  to  make  such  selections  as  uill best  serve  the  double  purpose  of  sketches  of  the  several  tribes named,  and  illustrate  characteristics  common  to  them  all.
H.  W.  Beckwith.
Danville,  III.,   November,    1883.  .    |
"The  Letters  from  the  West",  "The  Illinois  Monthly  ^^agazine",  and  it> continuation,  where  many  of  the  ori^^anals  may  be  found,  or  the  germs  can  be traced  from  which  elaborations  were  subsequently  made.  The  whole,  aside from  their  acknowledged  literary  merits,  possess  great  historical  value,  as  they present  while  they  preserve  a  faithful  picture  of  the  early  West.
Besides  the  above,  in  1836,  he  published  a  life  of  Oov.  Wm.  H.  Harnson, whicli,  for  perspicuity,  fidelity,  and  elegance  of  diction,  is  the  best  of  the many  that  have  appeared.  In  1848,  lie  prepared  a  ''Memoir  of  Thos.  Poj-ey, Major-General  and  Governor  of  Indiana",  published  in  "Sparks'  American Biographical  Series".  He  also  wrote  the  "  History  of  the  Indian  Tribes  of North  America",  aided  by  Col.  Thomas  L.  McKenney  of  the  Indian  Depart- ment; published  1S3S-44  and  1858,  in  three  large  volumes,  with  120  Indian portraits,  taken  mainly  from  the  Indian  Gallery,  formerly  in  the  Department of  War  at  Washington.  Judge  Hall  early  became  identified  with  our  State,  and aided  its  material  and  intellectual  progress  with  all  the  warmth  of  his  ardent nature.  His  pen  was  busy  in  praise  of  its  climate,  its  soil,  and  its  capabili- ties; and  prompt  and  trenchent  in  defence  of  the  sterling  traits  of  its  pioneer people,  by  whose  successors  he  ought  to  be  remembered.  The  writer  has collated  this  note,  mainly  from  the  above  volumes,  in  his  library  with  such other  scraps  of  information  as  he  could  gather  elsewhere.  The  biographical sketch  in  the  American  Cyclopedia,  to  which  the  writer  is  likewise  indebted, is  in  error  as  to  the  date  of  publication  of  the  "Letters  from  the  West",  as well,  also,  in  alleging  the  existence  of  a  "uniform  edition  of  Judge  Hail - works";  and  is  defective  in  that  it  omits  his  "Sketches  of  the  West"  (the  two volumes  possessing  more  historical  value  than  any  of  the  others),  and  make- no  mention  of  "The  Illinois  Monthly  Magazine"  and  its  continuation,  which, with  the  "Letters  from  the  West",  are  measurably  the  fountains  of  them  all.
His  writings,  except,  perhaps,  "The  Romance  of  Western  History",  and  a reprint  of  "The  Legends  of  the  West",  by  Robert  Clarke  &  Co.  of  Cincin- nati, in  1 87 1  and  1874,  respectively,  are  long  since  out  of  print.  Many  of them  are  quite  rare,  and  appear  only  at  long  intervals  in  the  catalogues  of dealers  in  "Americana".
I
SOME   A  C  C  O  U  N  T
OF    THE
INDIAN    TRIBES
FORMERLY    IXHAr'.ITING
IXDIAXA  AND  ILLINOIS,
h\'  HIRx\:\I  \V.  BECKWITH,  Danville,  III.
THE  ILLINOIS  AND  IXDIAXA  INDIANS;^
THP:    ILLINOIS.
'^PHE  several  Indian  tribes,  which  from  time  to  time  occupied X  parts  of  Illinois,  so  for  as  we  have  written  accounts  of  them, were  the  Miamis,  Illinois,  Winnebagos,  Sacs  and  Foxes,  Kicka- poos,  Pottawatomies,  and,  at  short  intervals,  the  Winnebagoes and  Shawnees.  They,  with  the  exception  of  the  Winnebagoes, who  were  of  the  Dakota  or  vSioux  stock,  were  classed  among the  Algon(}uin-Lenape  nations  on  account  of  the  similarity  of their  dialects  and  to  distinguisli  them  from  the  Iroquois  tribes  on the  east,  the  Choctaws,-  Cherokees,  Chickasaws,  and  others  south of  the  Ohio  River,  and  the  Dakotas  west  of  the  Mississippi.  The different  tribes  living  in  Illinois  will  be  referred  to  in  the  order  of priority  of  time  in  which  written  accounts  refer  to  their  respective names.
The  Illinois  Indians  were  composed  of  five  subdivisions:  Kas- kaskias.  Cnhokias,  lamaroas,  Peorias,  and  Afetchigamis,  tlie  last being  a  foreign  tribe  residing  west  of  the  Mississippi  River,  who being  reduced  to  small  numbers  by  wars  with  their  ncigiibors, abandoned  their  former  hunting-grounds  and  became  incorporated with  the  Illinois.  The  first  historical  mention  of  this  tribe  is found  in  the  ''Jesuit  Relations  for  the  year  i67o--i,'"'  prepared  by Father  Claude  Dablon,  from  the  letters  of  priests  stationed  at LaPointe  on   the  southwest  of  Lake  Superior.t     At  this  place,
*  A  more  detailed  account  of  these  tribes,  together  with  a  narration  of  tl'eir manners,  customs,  and  implements  (illustrated)  will  he  found  in  Ueckwith's "Historic  Notes  ..n  the  Northwest."
+  "  The  poiyU''''  of  land  extending;  out  into  Lake  Superior  and  beyond  vvhich 'tre  the  Apostle  Islands,  so  named  by  the  early  Jesuits,  because  there  arc  or v.ere  twelve  of  them  in  number.  The  construction  of  the  mission  chapel  of the  "Holy  Ghost"  was  begun  at  the  Pointe  by  Father  Claudius  AUouez  in i^j65;  and  ihe  place  was  afterward  known  by  the  Jesuits  as  "Lapoint  du  Saint
^,.j4/*  wfc".-,-  V
lOO  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
prior  to  1670,  the  French  had  a  trading-post,  to  v/liich  the  Indians came  for  many  miles,  to  barter  their  peltries  for  knives,  hatchets, kettles,  guns,  ammunition,  clothes,  ]\aints,  trin.kets,  and  other articles  of  European  manufacture;  and  as  the  Indians  that  first came  to  LaPointe  from  the  south  called  themselves  Illinois,  the French  called  them  ever  afterward  by  this  name.  Father  iJabion states  in  the  "Relations  for  the  year  1670'':  "As  we  have  given the  name  of  Ottawas  to  all  the  savages  of  these  countries,  although of  different  nations,  because  the  first  who,  have  appeared  among the  French  were  Ottawas,  so  also  it  is  with  the  name  Illinois, very  numerous,  and  dwelling  toward  tlie  soutli,  because  the  first who  came  to  the  Pointe  of  the  Holy  Ghost  for  commerce,  called themselves  Illinois."  In  the  Jesuit  Relations  and  in  the  writings of  other  French  authors,  ihe  name  Illinois  is  variously  spelled  as "Illi-mouek",  "Ill-i-no-u-es",  "Ill-i-ne-wek",  "AlHni-wek",  and  "Lin- i-wek".  The  terminations  o/^cs,  wek^  ois,  and  oi/ck  were  almost identical  in  pronunciation.  I^ewis  Evans,  the  great  geographer  in colonial  days,  spelled  the  name  Will-i-nis.  Major  Tliomas  For- syth, for  many  years  trader  and  Indian-agent  in  the  Illinois  Terri- tory, and  stationed  at  the  then  French  village  of  Peoria,  says  the "Illinois  confederation  call  themselves  Linni-wek,  and  by  others they  were  called  ]\Iin-ne-way."  Father  James  Marquette,  who, with  Louis  Joliet,  came  up  the  Illinois  River  in  1673,  and  Father Louis  Llennepin,  who  descended  the  same  stream  in  1679,  and both  coming  in  direct  contact  with  the  natives  dwelling  upon  the borders  of  its  waters,  giving  them  opportunities  of  knowing  where- of they  wrote,  in  their  journals  of  their  respective  voyages  spell the  name  Illinois."^  Father  Marcpiette,  as  well  as  Father  Mt^nne- pin,  give  in  their  journals  the  signification  that  the  Illinois  Indians gave  to  their  name.  The  former  in  his  narrative  journal  observes: *'To  say  Illinois  is,  in  their  language,  to  say  'the  men',  as  if  other Indians  compared  to  them  were  mere  beasts.^'  "The  word  Illi- nois," says  Father  Hennepin,  "signifies  a  man  of  full  age  in  the vigor  of  his  strength.  This  word  Illinois  comes,  as  has  already been   observed,    from   Illini,   which  in   that   language  signifies  a
Esprit"  [ihe  point  of  tlie  Holy  G"ho.st].  I'y  ilie  Algonq-ain  tribes  ami  the ungodly  far-traclers,  who  seriously  interfered  with  the  j;ood  father'>  mission work,  the  locality  was  called  "  Che-yrii-me-gon  ",  or  [the  ])Iace  ofj  "  7'7ie  Sa/it/v Point''\  which,  as  is  usual  with  aborir^'inal  names,  is  hiyhly  descriprive,  an^l characterizes  its  [)hysical  features  in  contrast  with  prevailing  rugyed  shores  ot Lake  Superior.  Upon  this  tongue  of  land,  in  modern  atlases,  is  shown  the City  of  Bayfield,  county-seat  of  Bayfield  County,  Wisconsin. *  Pronounced  Ill-i-noi,  the  terminal  s  being  silent.
THE   ILLINOIS.  1 01
perfect  and  accomplished  man/'  Originally  the  word  lUinewek,  or Linnewek,  had  only  a  general  meaning,  and  was  a  word  used  boast- ingly  by  other  tribes  of  the  great  Algonquin  family  when  speaking of  themselves.  The  Delawares,  considered  the  oldest  branch  ot this  fomily,  called  themselves  "  'Lenno-Lenape',  which,"  says Albert  Gallatin,  in  his  synopsis  of  Indians  tribes  of  North America,  ''means  original  or  'unmixed  men";  perhaps,  originally, 'manly  men  ".'"  In  the  Delaware  language  Leniio  means  a  man  and Nape  means  a-male.  Again,  the  tribes  that  occupiec]  the  country about  the  southern  extrenvity  of  Hudson  Bay,  and  who  belonged to  this  same  family  of  aboriginals,  says  Dr.  Robertson:  "call themselves,  as  many  other  Indian  tribes  do,  'men',  ' E-ii/i-ui-yook\ or  'In-ir-i-wrik',  prefixing  occasionally  the  name  of  their  especial tribes.  Thus  the  true  name  of  the  'Mon-so-nies'  or  Swamip Indians  vvho  inhabited  isFoose.  River  is  'AIon-so-a-Eith-yu-yook\ or  'Moose-deer-men'."'  Later,  and,  as  it  were,  by  the  uniform concurrence  of  nearly  all  writers,  when  referring  to  the  original- occupants  of  this  country,  the  name  Ilbi-mouek,  111-i-ne-wek,  Len- i-wek,  and  lU-i-ni  was  applied  only  to  the  Illinois  Confederation.
From  the  earliest  accounts  we  have,  the  principal  stream  of ibis  State  was  called  "The  River  of  the  Illinois";  and  a  wide region  of  country,  lying  north  of  the  mouth  of  the  Ohio  and  upon l)oth  sides  of  the  Mississippi,  was  called  "The  Country  of  the llhno's",  and  "The  Illinois".  These  designations  appear  in  the records  and  ofhcial  letters  under  the  administrations  and  owner- ship of  this  region  under  both  the  French  and  Spanish  Govern- ments. For  example,  letters,  deeds,  and  other  official  documents bore  date  at  "Kaskaskia  of  the  Illinois",  "St.  Louis  of  the  Illi- nois'', "Chicago  of  the  Illinois",  "Vincennes  of  the  Illinois",  etc.
^\  hile  the  Revolutionary  war  was  in  progress.  Gen.  Geo.  Rogers Clark  of  A^irginia  (though  a  resident  of  Kentucky,  which  was then  a  county  of  that  colony)  wrested  the  territory,  now  em- !>raced  within  the  States  of  Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois,  Michigan,  and "\^'isconsin,  from  the  pjritish  (iovernment.  Afterward  and  in  the spring  of  1779,  Col.  John  Todd,  commissioned  by  Virginia  as  its lieutenant,  went  to  Vincennes  and  Kaskaskia  and  organized  (ren. <- lark's  conr[uest  into  a  county  of  Virginia,  to  which  was  given 'he  name  of  "Illinois  County".  Later  this  domain  becanie  the property,  by  cession  of  the  several  states  claiming  interest,  of ihe  United  States.  On  tlie  4th  of  July,  1801,  the  Act  of  Con- L'rcss  for  the  division  of  the  Northwest  Territory  went  into  cflect, '»>■  the  terms  of  which  all  that  part  lying  to  the  westward  of  the ■*^'est  boundary  line  of  the  State  of  Ohio  was  constituted  a  sepa- '■"ite  territory,  under  name  of  "Indiana  Territory",  and  so  rem.ained
THE
NEV/BEf
\T-<\
LI
BRA
;>  V
c
MICA.f
'.0
m
102  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.  -    '
until  Avhen  by  Act  of  Congress,  February  3,  1S09,  all  that  part  t
of  it  lying  west  of  the  Wabash  River,  and  a  line  drawn  due  nortli  '   ■ from  Vincennes  to  the  British  possessions,  was  organized  into  a
separate  territory,  to  be  called  the  "Illinois  Territory".     Still  later,  ^
October  5,    1818,  was   passed  an  Act  for  the  admission  of  the  , lUinois  Territory  as  a  state  into  the  Federal  Union,  to  be  desig- nated as  the  "Srate  of  Illinois".      Such,  agreeably  to  approved
authorities,  is  the  origin  of  the  word  Illinois;  and  such  are  the  "^
various  uses  it  has  served.     A  great  State  perpetuates  the  name,  ^
in  memory  of  a   populous  and   powerful  race   of  redmen,   once  *
living  in  its  borders,  but  now  utterly  perished  from  the  earth.  .__  i
From  all  accounts,  it  seems  the  Illinois  Confederation  claimed  ^
the  extensive  county  bounded  on  the  east  by  the  ridge  that  divides  I
the  waters  flowing  into  the  Illinois  from  the  streams  that  drain  1
into  the  Wabash,  between  the  headwaters  of  Saline  Creek  and  a  f
point  as  far  north  on  the  Illinois  as  the  Desplaines,  reachmg  still  |
northward  to  the  debatable  ground  between  themselves,  the  ^Vin-  . ';
nebagoes,  the  Sacs  and  Foxes,  and  the  Kickapoos;  and  extending  |
westward  of  the  Mississippi.     Their  favorite  and  most  populous  * villages  were  upon  the  Illinois  and  its  two  principal  branches,  the Desplaines  and  the  Kankakee.
The  area  of  the  original  country  of  the  Illinois  was  soon  reduced  %
by  continuous  wars  with  their  neighbors.     The  Sioux  (Da-ko-ta)  ^
pressed  them  from  the  west;  the  Sacs  and  Foxes  and  Kicka})oos,  |
confederates,    encroached    upon    their    territory  from   the   north;  ^
while  war  parties  of  the  fierce  Iroquois,  coming  from   the  east,  | rapidly  decimated  their  numbers.     These  destructive  influences
were  doing  their  fatal  work,  and  the  power  of  the  Illinois  was  ;
waninsr  when  thev  first  came  in  contact  with  the  French.     Their  ^
sufterings  rendered  them  pliable  to  the  voice  of  the  missionar}';  v
and,  in  their  weakness,  they  hailed  with  delight  the  coming  of  tlie  |
Frenchmen,  with  his  promise  of  protection  assured  with  gifts  of  ^
guns  and  powder.     The  Illinois  drew  so  kindly  to  the  priests,  tlie  I coureiu's  des  bois.  and  soldiers  that  the  friendship  between  the  two
races  never  abated;  and  when,  in  the  order  of  events,  the  sons  oi  | France  had  departed  from  Illinois,  the  love  of  the  nati\-es  for  the
departed  (jaul  was  handed  down  as  a  precious  memory  to  their  j
children.  I
The  military  establishments  a-t- Detroit,  Mich.,  and  at  Starved  |
Rock,  III.,-'  for  a  while  checked  the  incursions  of  the  Irocpaois  |
*  Under  his  letters  patent,  j^ranted  by  the  king  of  France  to  the  seigniory of  "The  Country  of  tiie  Illinois,"  LaSalle  [so  called  after  the  name  of  the
landed  estate,  near  Rouen,  France,  belonging  to  his  family,  but  whose  primal  |
THE   ILLINOIS.  IO3
and.  stayed  the  calamity  that  was  to  befall  the  Illinois.  We  give a  condensed  account  of  some  of  these  campaigns  of  the  Iroquois into  the  Illinois  country,  as  embraced  in  extracts  which  are taken  from  a  ^Memoir  on  Western  Indians,  by  JNI.  DuChesneau, Intendent  of  Canada,  and  successor  to  Jean  Tallon,  dated  at Quebec,  September  13,  1681:  "To  convey  a  correct  idea,''  says this  French  ofticer,  ''of  the  present  state  of  all  those  Indian nations  it  is  necessary  to  explain  the  cause  of  the  cruel  war  waged by  the  Iroquois  for  these  three  years  past  against  the  Illinois^ The  former  are  great  warriors,  can  not  remain  idle,  and  ])retend to  subject  all  other  nations  to  themselves,  and  never  want  a  pre- text for  commencing  hostilities.  71ie  following  is  tlieir  assumed excuse  for  the  present  war:  going  about  twenty  years  ago  to attack  the  Foxes,  they  met  the  Illinois,  and  killed  a  considerable number  of  them.  This  continued  during  the  succeeding  years, and  finally  having  destroyed  a  great  many,  they  forced  tiiem  to abandon  their  country  and  seek  refuge  in  very  distant  parts.  The Iroquois,  having  got  rid  of  the  Illinois,  took  no  more  trouble  with them,  but  went  to  war  against  another  nation  called  the  'An-dos- tagues,"  [the  Fries  or  Cats,  so-called,  and  who  were  entirely  des- troyed by  the  Iroquois].  Pending  this  war,  the  lUinois  returned to  their  country,  and  the  Iroquois  complained  that  they  had  killed forty  of  their  people  while  on  their  way  to  hunt  beaver  in  the Illinois  country.  To  obtain  satisfaction,  the  Iroquois  resolved to  make  war  upon  them.  Their  true  motive,  however,  was  to gratify  the  British  at  '  Ma-nat-te "  [New  York]  and  'Orange' [Albany],  of  whom  they  are  too  near  neighbors,  and  who,  by means  of  presents,  engaged  the  Iroquois  in  this  expedition,  the object  of  which  was  to  force  the  Illinois  to  bring  their  beaver  to them,  so  that  they  may  go  and  trade  it  afterward  to  the  British; also  to  intimidate  the  other  Indians,  and  constrain  them  to  do  the same  thing.
name  was  Rene — Robert  Cavelire]  erected  a  fort  and  trading-post  on  the eminence  of  this  rocky  height,  situated  on  the  south  side  of,  and  overlooking, the  Illinois  River,  some  eight  miles  below  Ottawa.  The  fort  was  called  "P'ort St.  Louis",  in  honor  of  his  i)atron  Lofiis  Il\  and  the  place  Le  Rocker  [the Rock].  The  now  generally  rt:ceivcd  name  of  "Starved  Rock"  is  derived  from an  alleged  starving  to  death  of  a  party  oil. Indians  corraled  there  L>y  a  remorse- less enemy  of  besiegers.  The  occurrence  is  witiiout  authority  to  support  it, other  than  several  vague  (though  charming)  traditions  drawn  from  the  "won- der-stories" of  as  many  diff.-rent  tribes.  One  of  the  most  interesting  of  these, both  in  matter  and  the  manner  of  treating  it,  is  preserved  in  a  paper  on  "The Last  of  the  Illinois,"  from  the  aljle  pen  of  Hon.  Judge  Caton,  and  published in  Number  Three  of  LKRfus'  HisTOKiCAL  Skriks,
I
104  ILLINOIS   AND    INT3IANA    INDIANS.
••The  improper  conduct  of  Sieiir  de  LaSalle,  governor  of  Ft. Frontenac,  has  contributed  considerably  to  cause  the  latter  to adopt  this  proceeding;  for  after  he  had  obtained  perrnissio]i  to discover  the  great  river  Mississippi,  and  had,  as  he  alleged,  the grant  of  the  [country  of  the]  Illinois,  he  no  longer  observed  any terms  with  the  Iroquois,  and  avowed  that  he  would  convey  arms and  ammunition  to  the  Illinois,  and  would  die  assisting  them."' We  break  the  thread  of  Chesneau's  official  letter  to  say  to  the reader  that  it  must  be  remembered  that  LaSalle  was  not  exempt from  the  attacks  of  that  jealousy  and  envy  which  is  inspired  ii the  souls  of  little  men  toward  those  who  plan  and  execute  great undertakings.  AVe  see  this  spirit  manifested  in  this  letter.  La Salle  could  not  have  done  otherwise  than  supply  tire-arms  to  the Illinois  Indians;  they  were  his  friends  and  the  owners  of  the country,  the  trade  of  which  he  had  opened  up  at  great  hardship and  expense  to  himself.
Proceeding  with  Chesneau's  letter:  "The  Iroquois  despatched in  the  month  of  April,  of  last  year,  an  army  consisting  of  between h\c  and  six  hundred  men,  who  approached  an  Illinois  village [near  the  present  site  of  Utica,  LaSalle  Co.,  111.],  where  Sieur Henry  de  Tonty,  LdSalle's  principal  officer,  happened  to  be  with some  Frenchmen  and  two  Recollect  Fathers  [the  catholic  priests, Fathers  Gabriel  Ribourde  and  Zenobe  jNIembre,  whom  the  Iro- quois left  unharmed].  One  of  these,  a  most  holy  man  [Father Ribourde]  has  since  been  killed  by  the  Indians.  But  they  would listen  to  no  terms  of  peace  pro])osed  to  them  by  I'onty,  who  was slightly  wounded  at  the  beginning  of  the  attack;  the  Illinois, having  fled  a  hundred  leagues,  were  ])ursued  by  the  Iroquois,  who killed  and  captured  as  many  as  twelve  hundred  of  them,  includ- ing women  and  children,  having  lost  only  thirty  men.'-'  The  victory achieved  by  the  Iroquois  rendered  them  so  insolent  that  they have  continued  ever  since  that  time  to  send  out  divers  war  parties. The  success  of  the  last  is  not  yet  known,  but  it  is  not  doubted they  have  been  successful,  because  they  are  very  warlike,  while the  Illinois  arc  but  indifferently  so.  Indeed,  there  is  no  doubt, and  it  is  the  universal  opinion,  that  if  the  Iroquois  are  allowed  to proceed,  they  will  subdue  the  Illinois,  and  in  a  sliort  time  render themselves  masters  of  all  the  Ottawa  tribes,  and  direct  the  trade to  the  British,  so  that  it  is  absolutely  essential  to  make  them  our friends  or  to  destroy  them."
'Lhe  building  of  Fort  St.  Louis  upon  the  heights  of  Starxed Rock  by  LaSalle,  in   1682,  gave  confidence  to  the   Illinois  and
*  In  this  foray,  the  Iroquois  drovi-  the  fugitive  Illinois  l)eyond  the  ^Mssi.ssippi.
THE    ILLIXOIb':  I05
their  scattered  remnants  who  had  again  returned  to  their  flivorite village.  They  "were  followed  by  bands  of  V.'eas,  Pi-an-ke-shas, and  ^li-am-ies,  near  kinsmen  of  the  Illinois,  and  by  the  ShaA-- nees  and  other  tribes  of  remoter  affinity ;  and  soon  a  cordon  of populous  towns  arose  about  the  fort.  The  military  forces  of these  villages  at  the  colony  of  LaSalle,  in  16S4.  was  estimated at  three  thousand  six  hundred  and  eighty  fighting  men,  the  Illinois furnishing  more  than  one-third  of  this  number.  Thus  were  the Iroquois  barred  out  of  the  country  of  the  Illinois,  who,  for  a  season, enjoyed  a  respite  from  their  old  enemies.  The  abandonment  of Fort  St.  Louis  as  a  military  post,  in  1702,  was  followed  by  a  dis- persion of  the  tribes  and  fragments  of  tribes,  except  at  the  Illinois village,  where  a  straggling  population  retained  possession.  The Kaskaskias  learning,  in  the  year  1700,  that  France  was  making  a military  establishment  and  colony  near  the  mouth  of  the  Missis- sippi, started  tliither.  They  w-ere  intercepted  on  the  way,  and persuaded  to  halt  above  the  mouth  of  the  Ohio,  and  soon  there- after made  themselves  a  permanent  home  on  the  banks  of  a  stream which  since  then  has  borne  their  name,  the  Kaskaskia.
The  Iroquois  came  no  more,  having  war  enough  on  their  hands nearer  home;  but  the  Illinois  were  constantly  harrassed  by  other enemies,  the  Sacs  and  Foxes,  the  Kickapoos,  and  the  Pottawato- mies.  Their  villages  at  Starved  Rock  and  at  Peoria  Lake  were besieged  by  the  Foxes  in  1722,  and  a  detachment  of  a  hundred men,  commanded  by  Chevalier  de  Artaguiette  and  Sieur  de  Tisnc, was  sent  from  Fort  Chartres  to  their  assistance.  The  Foxes  ha\- ing  lost  more  than  a  hundred  of  their  men,  abandoned  the  siege before  the  reinforcements  arri\ed.  "'This  success  [says  Charle- voix, the  great  French  historian]  did  not,  however,  prevent  the Illinois,  although  they  had  lost  only  twenty  men,  with  some women  and  children,  from  leaving  the  Rock  and  Pim-i-toey [Peoria  Lake]  where  the\-  were  kept  in  constant  alarm,  and  to proceeding  to  unite  with  those  of  their  brethren  [the  Kaskaskias] who  had  settled  upon  the  Mississippi.  This  was  a  stroke  of grace  for  most  of  them,  the  small  number  of  missionaries  prevent- ing their  supplying  so  many  towns  scattered  far  apart;  but,  on the  other  side,  as  there  was  nothing  to  check  the  raids  of  the Foxes  along  the  Illinois  River,  communication  between  Louisiaria and  New  France  [Canada]  becamemuch  less  pjracticable."
The  next  fifteen  years  show  a  further  decline  in  their  numbers. In  an  enumeration  of  the  Indian  tribes  connected  with  the  dov- ernment  of  Canada,  prepared  in  the  year  1736,  the  name,  loca- tion, and  number  of  fighting-men  of  the  Illinois  are  set  down  as follows:     "Mitchigamias,  near  Fort  Chartres,  two  hundred  and
IC6  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.  <  ,v
iifty  ;  Kaskaskies,  six  leagues  below,  one  hundred ;  Peorias, and  the  Rock,  fifty:  the  Cahokias  and  Tamarois,  two  hun- dred:"" making  a  total  of  six  hundred  warriors.  The  kDlincr of  Pontiac,  some  thirty  years  later,  at  Cahokia,  whither  he  had retired  after  the  failure  of  his  bold  efforts  to  rescue  tlie  counny from  the  British,  was  laid  upon  the  Illinois,  a  charge  which, whether  true  or  false,  hastened  their  destruction.  In  an  ofticial letter  to  the  secretary  of  war,  of  date  March  22,  1814,  Geu.  Wni. H.  Harrison  says,  "When  I  was  first  appointed  go\ernor  of  the Indiana  Territory  [May,  iSoo],  tJiese  once  powerful  tribes  v/ere reduced  to  about  thirty  warriors,  of  whom  twenty-fi\e  were  Kas- kaskias,  four  Peorias,  and  a  single  MitcJiigamian.  A  furious  war between  them  and  the  Sacs  and  Kickapoos  reduced  them  to  that miserable  remnant  wliich  had  taken  refuge  among  the  white  peo- ple in  the  towns  of  Kaskaskia  and  St.  Genieve."  Since  iSoo,  b\' successive  treaties,  they  ceded  their  lands  to  the  United  States. and  were  remo\  ed  to  reservations,  lying  southwest  of  Kansas City,  where,  in  1S72,  they  had  dwindled  to  forty  persons — men, women,  and  children,  all  told.
Thus  have  v/asted  away  the  original  occupants  of  the  larger part  of  Illinois,  and  ]jortions  of  Iowa  and  \Iissouri.  In  their single  village  near  Starved  Rock,  says  Father  Membre',  who  was there  in  1680,  '"there  were  seven  or  eight  thousand  souls;"'  and, in  1684,  their  warriors  were  set  down  at  twelve  hundred.  In  the days  of  their  power,  they  nearly  exterminated  the  Win-ne-ba-goes. Their  war-parties  ])enetrated  the  towns  of  the  Iroquois  in  the valleys  of  the  Mohawk  and  the  Genesee.  They  took  the  ^Nlitchi- gamies  under  their  ])rotection,  giving  them  security  against  ene- mies with  v/honi  the\'  were  unable  to  contend.  They  assisted the  French  in  their  wars  against  the  Cherokees  and  the  Chicka- saws;  and  in  the  bitter  struggle  between  the  American  colonies and  the  mother  country  on  the  one  side,  and  Canada  and  France on  the  other,  the  Illinois  tribes  gave  bountifully  of  their  braves. who  fought  heroicly  and  to  the  last  in  the  loosing  cause  of  their leather  0-ni-to  [tlie  king],  across  the  great' water.
This  peoj>le  who  had  dominated  over  surrounding  tribes,  claim- ing for  themselves  the  name  of  lUini  or  LinnevNay,  to  distinguish. their  superior  manhood,  have  disappeared  from  the  earth;  another race,  representing  a  higher  civiiii^ation.  occupy  tlieir  former  do- mains; and,  already,  e\en  the  origin  of  their  name  and  the  places of  their  villages  have  become  the  subjects  of  antic piaiian  research.
THE    MI  AMIS.  107
THE    MIAMIS.
THE  people  known  to  us  as  the  Miamis  formerly  li\'ed  beyond the  ]\lissis5ippi.  Their  migration  from  thence  eastward through  Wisconsin,  Northern  Illinois,  around  the  southern  bend of  Lake  Michigan  to  ])etro!t,  thence  up  the  Maumee,  and  down the  ^^'abash,  and  eastward  through  Indiana  into  Ohio,  as  far  as the  Great  ^liami,  can  be  followed  through  the  writings  of  officers, missionaries,  and  travelers  connected  with  the  French.  Referring to  the  mixed  village  of  Mascoutins  and  others  upon  Fox  River, near  its  mouth,  in  Wisconsin,  Father  Claude  Dal)lon,  who  was there  in  1670,  says  the  village  "is  joined  in  the  circle  of  the  same barriers  of  another  people  named  Ou-mi-a-mi,  which  is  one  of  the Illinois  nations,  which  is,  as  it  were,  dismembered  from  the  others, in  order  to  dwell  in  these  quarters."'  "It  is  beyond  this  great river  [the  ^Mississippi,  of  which  the  father  had  been  speaking  m the  paragrajjih  preceding  that  quoted]  that  are  placed  the  Illinois of  whom  we  speak,  and  from  whom  are  detached  tliose  who  dv\-ell here  with  the  Five  Nations  [Mascoutins,  or  Kickapoos]  to  form here  a  transplanted  colony."'
From  these  quotations,  there  remains  little  doubt  but  that  the Miamis  were  a  branch  of  the  great  Ill-i-ni.  This  theory  is  not only  declared  by  all  French  authorities,  but  is  sustained  by  many British  and  American  writers,  among  tJie  latter  of  whom  may  be named  Gen.  Wm.  EI.  Harrison,  whose  long  acqua.mtance  and ofiicial  relations  with  the  Northwestern  Indians,  especially  the  sev- eral sub-divisions  of  the  Miami  and  Illinois  tribes,  gave  him opportunities  of  which  he  availed  himself  to  acquire  an  intimate knowledge  concerning  them.  He  says,  "Although  the  language, manners,  and  customs  of  tiie  Kaskaskias  make  it  sufficiently  cer- tain that  they  derive  tlieir  origin  from  the  same  source  witii  the Miamis;  the  connection  had  been  dissolved  before  the  French had  penetrated  from  Canada  to  the  Mississippi."'  This  assertion of  Cien.  Harrison  that  the  tribal  relations  between  the  Illinois  and Miamis  had  been  broken  prior  to  the  exploration  of  the  Missis- sippi Valley  is  sustained  v»ith  great  unanimity  by  all  other  authori- ties, and  is  illustrated  in  the  long  and  disastrous  wars  waged  upon the  Illinois  by  the  Iroquois,  Sacs  and  Foxes,  Kickapoos,  and  other enemies,  in  which  there  is  no  instance  given  where  the  Miamis ever  offered  assistance  to  their  ancient  kinsmen;  on  the  contrary, they  often  lifted  the  bloody  hatchet  against  them.
The  Miami  confederation  was  subdivided  into  four  principal l^ands,  since  known  under  the  name  of  Miamis,  Eel-Rivers,  Weas,
lOS  ILLIXOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
and  Piankeshaws.  French  writers,  and  some  of  the  colonial traders,  have  given  names  of  two  or  three  other  subdivisions  ot the  bands  named;  their  identity,  however,  can  not  be  cleady traced,  and  they  figure  so  little  in  the  accounts  vrhich  we  have  of the  Miamis  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  specify  tlieir  obsolete  names. The  ]Miamis,  proper,  have  by  different  writers  been  called  '"Ou- mi-a-mi",  '^Ou-mi-am-wek",  "Mau-mees",  "Au-mi-am-i"'  (which has  been  contracted  to  Au-mi  and  to  "O-mee"),  and  "Min-e- am-i".  The  "Weas,  whose  name  more  properly  is  "We-we-hah", is  called  "Sy-a-ta-nous"',  "Oui-at-a-nons"',  and  "Ou-i-as"  by  tlie French,  and  in  whose  orthography  the  "8y"  and  "Ou"  are  equiv- alent in  sound  nearly  to  the  letter  of  the  English  W.  The  British and  colonial  officers  and  traders  spelled  die  word  "Oui-ca-ta-non" , "  Way-ough-ta-nies"\  "  Waw  i-ach-tens",  and  "We-hahs"'.  The name  Piankeshaws,  in  early  accounts,  figure  as  "Pou-an-ke-ki-as'", *'Pe-an-gui-chias"',  ''Pi-an-gui-shaws",  "Py-an-ke-shaws",  and  "Pi- an-qui-shaws".  The  Miami  tribes  were  known  to  the  Iroquois  of New  York  as  the  Twigh-twees,  a  name  generally  used  by  the British  as  well  as  by  the  American  colonists  when  referring  to  any of  the  Miami  tribes.
In  the  year  1OS4,  at  LaSalle's  Colony,  at  Starved  Rock,  the Miamis  had  populous  villages,  where  the  Miamis,  proper,  counted thirteen  hundred  warriors,  the  Weas  five  hundred,  and  the  Pian- keshaw  band  one  hundred  and  fifty.  At  a  later  day,  1718,  the Weas  had  a  village  '"at  Chicago,  but,  being  afraid  of  the  canoe- pcople  [the  Chi[)peways  and  Pottawatomies],  left  it,  and  passing around  the  head  of  Lake  Michigan  to  be  nearer  their  brethren farther  to  the  east."  Father  Charlevoix,  writing  from  this  vicinity, in  1 72 1,  says:  "Fifty  years  ago,  the  Miamis  [/.  c.  the  Wea  band] were  settled  on  the  southern  extremity  of  Lake  Michigan,  in  a place  called  Chicago^  from  the  name  of  a  small  river  which  runs into  the  lake,  the  source  of  which  is  not  far  distant  from  that  of the  river  of  the  Illinois  [meaning  the  Desplaines,  which  is  the name  by  which  it  was  often  called  in  French  authorities].  Hiey are  at  present  divided  into  three  villages,  one  of  which  stands  on River  St.  Joseph,  the  second  on  another  river  [the  Maumee]  which bears  their  name  and  runs  into  Lake  Erie,  and  a  third  upon  the River  Ouabache,  which  empties  its  waters  into  the  Mississij)pi. The  last  are  better  known  by  tlie^appellation  of  Ouyatanons.'"'"  In 1694,  the  governor  of  New  France,  in  a  conference  with  the W^estern  Indians,  requested  the  Miamis  of  the  Pe-pe-ko-kia  band who  resided  upon  the  Afararnek  [Kalamazoo  River,  in  Michigan] to  remove  and  join  their  tribe  located  on  the  St.  Joseph  of  Lake Michigan;  the  governor  giving  it  as  his  reason  that  he  wished  the
THE    MIAMIS.  IC9
several  Miami  bands  to  unite,  "so  as  to  be  able  to  execute  with greater  facility  the  commands  which  he  might  issue/"'  At  that time  the  Iroquois  were  making  war  upon  Canada,  and  the  French were  trying  to  induce  the  western  tribes  to  take  up  the  tomahawk in  their  behalf,  The  Miamis  promised  to  comply  with  the  gov- ernors wishes;  and  "late  in  August,  1696,  they  started  to  join their  brethren  on  the  St.  Joseph.  On  their  way  they  were  attacked by  the  Sioux,  and  lost  several  men.  The  Miamis  of  the  St.  Joseph learning  this  hostility,  resolved  to  avenge  their  slaughter.  They pursued  the  Sioux  to  their  own  country,  and  found  them  entrenched in  a  fort  with  some  I'Venchnjen  of  the  class  known  as  courcurs  des bois  [bush-iopers.]  They  nevertheless  attacked  them  repeatedly, but  were  repulsed  and  were  compelled  to  retire  after  losing  several of  their  braves.  On  their  way  home,  meeting  other  Frenchmen carrying  arms  and  ammunition  to  the  Sioux,  they  seized  all  they had,  but  did  them  no  harm.''
The  Miamis  were  greatly  enraged  with  the  French  for  supply- ing the  Sioux  with  fire-arms.  It  took  all  the  address  of  Gov. Frontenac  to  persuade  them  from  joining  the  Iroquois.  Indeed, they  seized  Nicolas  Perrot,  the  F'rench  trader,  who  had  been  com- missioned to  lead  the  Maramek  band  to  the  River  St.  Joseph,  and would  have  burned  him  alive  had  it  not  been  for  the  intercession of  the  Foxes  in  his  belialf  This  was  the  beginning  of  an  aliena- ti  m  of  kindly  feeling  of  the  Miamis  toward  the  French,  which was  never  restored;  and  from  this  period,  the  movements  of  the tribe  were  observed  by  the  French  with  jealous  suspicion.
The  country  of  the  Miamis  extended  west  to  the  watershed between  the  Illinois  and  Wabash  Rivers,  which  separated  their possessions  from  those  of  their  brethren,  the  Illinois.  On  the north  were  the  Pottawatomies,  who  were  slowly  but  persistently pushing  their  line  southward  through  Wisconsin  and  around  the west  shore  of  Lake  Michigan,  as  we  shall  see  when  coming  to treat  of  them  in  a  subsecjuent  chai)ter.
Unlike  the  Illinois,  the  Miamis  held  their  own  until  ])Iaced  on an  equal  footing  with  tribes  eastward  of  them,  by  obtaining  pos- session of  fire-arms.  Their  superior  numbers  and  bravery  enabled them  to  extend  the  limits  of  their  hunting-grounds  eastward  into r)hio,  far  v/ithin  the  territory  claimed  by  the  Iroquois;  and  says (iov,  HaiTison,  they  "were  the  undoubted  proprietors  of  all  that beautiful  country  watered  by  the" Wabash  and  its  tributaries,  and there  remains  as  little  doubt  that  their  claim  extended  as  far  east as  the  Scioto."  With  implements  of  civilized  warfare  in  their hands,  they  maintaijied  their  tribal  integrity  and  independence; and  th.ey  traded  with  and  fought  against  the  French,  British,  and
no  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
Americans  by  turns,  as  their  interests  or  passions  inclined;  and made  ])eace  with  or  declared  war  against  other  nations  of  their own  race  as  policy  or  caprice  moved  them.  More  than  once  they compelled  the  arrogant  Iroquois  to  beg  from  the  governors  of  the American  colonies  that  protection  which  they  themselves  had failed  to  secure  b}^  their  own  prowess.  Bold,  independent,  and flushed  with  success,  the  Miamis  aftbrded  a  poor  field  for  mission- ary work,  and  the  Jesuit  Relations  and  pastoral  letters  of  the French  priesthood  have  less  to  say  of  the  Miamis  than  of  any other  westward  tril^e,  the  Kickapoos  alone  excepted.  Referring to  their  military  powers.  Gen.  Harrison  says  of  them  that,  "saving the  ten  years  preceding  the  Treaty  of  Greenville  [1705!,  the Miamis  alone  could  have  brought  more  than  three  thousand  war- riors in  the  field :  that  they  composed  a  body  of  the  finest  light troops  in  the  world,  and  had  they  been  under  an  efficient  system of  discipline,  or  possessed  enterprise  equal  to  their  valor,  the settlement  of  the  country  would  have  been  attended  with  much more  difficulty  than  was  encountered  in  accomplishing  it  and  their final  subjugation  would  have  for  years  been  delayed.  But  con- stant Avars  with  our  frontier  had  deprived  them  of  many  of  their warriors,  the  ravages  of  the  small-pox,  however,  was  the  principal cause  of  the  great  decrease  in  their  numbers,"'
It  was  only  the  Piankeshaw  band  of  the  Miamis,  however,  that occupied  portions  of  Illinois  subsequent  to  the  dispersion  of  La Salle's  colony  about  Starved  Rock.  The  principal  villages  of  the latter  were  upon  the  Vermilion  River,  and  at  and  in  the  vicinity of  Vincennes,  Ind.
Their  territory  extended  eastward  to  the  Ohio  Ri\'er  and  west- ward to  the  ridge  that  divides  the  waters  flowing  respectively  into the  Kaskaskia  and  the  ^Vabash.  They  were  found  by  French officers  in  populous  towns  upon  the  Vermilion  as  early  as  171S; later,  they  pushed  tlit  degenerating  Illinois  bands  to  the  vicinity of  Kaskaskia  and  neighboring  villages,  and  hunted  and  dominated over  the  territory  to  the  ^lississippi,  as  high  up,  nearly,  as  the mouth  of  the  Illinois.
After  the  conquest  of  the  Northwest  Territory  by  the  colonies and  the  mother  comitry,  and  the  subsequent  overthrow  of  Pontiac, the  British  Government  sent  out  Cieorge  Groghan  to  obtain  the consent  of  the  Indians  to  the  occupation  of  Kaskaskia  and  other forts  erected  by  the  i'rencli  in  thb  western  country.  Groghan  was captured  by  a  war^party  of  Kicka[)oos,  near  the  mouth  of  the Wabash,  and  taken  prisoner  to  Vinceimes;  from  thence  he  came overland,  following  the  (ireat  Trail  leading  to  Detroit,  through the  prairies,  along  the  crest  of  the  dividing  ridge  before  named,
THE    MIAMIS.  1  I  I
crossing  the  A'ermilion  River  west  of  Danville.  He  describes that  part  of  the  hunting-ground  of  the  Piankesliaws  between  Yin- cennes  and  the  Vermihon  of  tlie  Wabash.  That  the  reader  may know  how  the  ilhnois  country  appeared  to  an  eye-witness  in  1765, who  wrote  down  his  observations  at  the  time,  we  quote  the  fol- lowing extracts  from  Col.  Croghan's  daily  journal,  of  June  i8th  to the  2 2d,  inclusive:
"\re  traveled  through  a  prodigious  large  meadow  [prairie]  called the  PiankesKaw's  hunting-ground.  Here  is  no  wood  to  be  seen, and  the  country  appears  like  an  ocean.  The  ground  is  exceed- ingly rich  and  partially  ove. grown  with  wild  hemp.  The  land  is well  watered  and  full  of  buffalo,  deer,  bears,  and  all  kinds  of  wild game.  "~  "  *  We  passed  through  some  very  large  meadows, part  of  which  belongs  to  the  Piankeshaws  on  the  Vermilion  River. The  country  and  soil  were  much  the  same  as  that  we  traveled  o^xr for  these  three  days  past.  Wild  hemp  grows  here  in  abundance. Game  is  very  plenty.  At  any  time,  in  a  half  an  hour,  we  could kill  as  much  as  we  wanted.'"  '^  ■''  We  passed  through  a  part of  the  same  meadow  mentioned  yesterday;  then  came  to  a  high woodland,  and  arrived  at  Vermilion  River,  so  called  from  a  fine 7'ed  earth  found  thereby  the  Indians,  with  which  they  paint  them- selves. About  a  half  of  a  mile  from  where  we  crossed  this  river  is a  village  of  Piankeshaws,  distinguished  by  the  addition  of  name of  the  river."
Next  to  the  Illinois,  the  Piankeshaws  were  the  most  peacefully inclined  toward  the  whites.  Early  intermarriages  of  their  daugli- ters  with  French  traders,  at  Vijicennes,  and  elsewhere,  and  with whom  this  tribe  lived  on  terms  of  social  equality,  begat  a  genera- tion that  united  them  all  in  a  common  interest.  It  was,  therefore, that  General  Clark,  in  his  conquest  of  the  Illinois  country,  found Httle  trouble  in  transferring  this  friendliness  of  the  Piankeshaws at  Vincennes  and  the  Vermilion  towns  to  the  American  cause, the  same  as  he  had  previously  done  at  Kaskaskia  and  the. neigh- boring mixed  French  and  Indian  villages  upon  the  Mississippi. The  Piankeshaws,  barring  individual  exceptions,  took  no  part  in those  bloody  wars  against  the  whites  that  followed  the  Revolution- ary struggle.  It  was  not  they,  but. war-parties  of  the  Kickapoos, Pottav/atomies,  and  other  northwestern  tribes  that  terrorized  over
*  There  must  have  l;ecn  more  than  oneKundred  persons  in  this  cortei:;e  to provide  food  for;  as  the  party  alone  Ijy  whom  Croghan  and  his  associates were  captured,  numbered  eighty  warriors.  Hence,  it  would  require  a  good deal  of  meat,  doubtless  their  only  means  of  sustinance,  to  supply  their  daily wants.
J  12  ILLINOIS    -VND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
the  white  settlements,  crystalizing  along  the  Ohio,  the  ^^'aL>asb, and  their  tributaries,  and  in  southwestern  Illinois.  In  the  retalia- tory raids  of  the  Americans  into  the  Indian  territory,  the  innocent Piankeshaws  often  suftered  avenging  blows  that  should  have  tallen upon  the  guilty  ones.  The  pioneer,  burning  with  a  sense  of  his wrongs,  only  considered  that  all  redskins  were  Indians,  and, without  stopping  to  inquire  whether  they  were  of  a  friendly  tribe or  not,  remorselessly  slew  upon  sight  any  one  of  them  whom  he discovered.  This  state  of  affairs  grew  so  bad  that  the  Pianke- shaws appealed  to  the  Government,  and  General  Washington issued  his  proclamation,  especially  forbidding  the  Piankeshaws from  being  harmed  by  the  white  |)eople.
The  capital  of  the  Miami  tribe,  from  earliest  times,  was  at  Ft. Wayne.  As  far  back  as  the  year  1700  they  were  there,  and  shortly before  had  assisted  Canadians  in  making  the  "Portage"— the  land carriage  from  the  St.  Marys  across  to  Little  River,  a  tributary  of the  A\'abash.  The  near  proximity  of  the  headwaters  of  the  ]\Iau- mee,  flowing  eastwardly  into  Lake  Erie,  and  Little  River  and  the Wabash,  flowing  westward  and  south  into  the  Mississippi,  gave great  importance  to  this  Portage,  making  it  the  key  to  and  giving it  control  of  the  communication  between  the  vast  area  of  country lying  upon  either  side.  The  ]\Iiainis  well  knew  this,  and  held possession  until  forced,  at  last,  to  }ield  it  to  the  United  States,  in T795,  by  the  terms  of  the  treaty  at"  Greenville.  At  that  treaty, Little  Turtle,  the  great  orator  of  the  Miamis,  protesting  against its  surrender,  said:  "Elder  brother  [meaning  Gen.  Wayne],  when our  forefathers  saw  the  French  and  the  English  at  the  Miami  vil- lage [as  Ft.  Wayne  was  then  known],  that  ^''/(V7^^//'j- ^^^/^  which  your younger  brothers  [the  Miamis]  had  the  happiness  to  own,  and through  which  all  the  good  words  of  our  chiefs  had  to  pass  [that is,  messages  between  the  several  tribes],  from  north  to  south,  and east  to  west,  the  French  and  the  English  never  told  us  they  wished to  purchase  our  lands  from  us.*'  "The  next  place  you  pointed out  to  us  was  the  Little  River,  and  said  you  wanted  two  miles .square  at  that  place.  This  is  a  request  that  our  fathers,  the  French or  l>ritish,  ne\er  made  of  us;  it  was  a/ways  ours.  This  carrying place  has  heretofore  proved,  in-  a  great  degree,  the  subsistence  ot your  br(jthers.  I'hat  place  has  brought  us,  in  the  course  of  one day,  the  amount  lA  t^velve  hundred  dollars.  Let  us  both  own this  j/'ace,  and  enjoy  in  common *t!ie  advantages  it  atlords."  Gen. Wayne  was  inexorable;  and,  by  the  terms  of  the  treaty,  a  piece of  land  six  miles  square,  near  the  confluence  of  the  Rivers  St. Marys  and  St.  Joseph,  at  Ft.  Wayne,  and  a  piece  two  miles  square at  the  confluence  of  Little  River  with  the  Wabash,  was  ceded  to the  United  States.
I
THE    MIAMIS.  113
The  Miamis  at  Ft.  Way.ne  vrere  regarded  as  the  senior  band  of the  tribe,  from  their  superior  inteUigence  and  numbers;  and  to whom  the  otlier  bands,  except  the  Piankesliaws,  at  a  later  day. ■deferred  in  all  matters  of  peace  or  war  or  aftairs  affecting  the common  interests  of  the  tribe.  The  other  branches  of  the  great ]\Iiami  family  had  extensive  villages  and  cultivated  fields  on  the Mississineway,  near  and  above  Peru,  Indiana;  along  Eel  River. near  Logansport  and  above;  upon  the  Wea  plains,  below  Laiiiy- ette;  upon  Sugar  Creek;  and  upon  the  beautiful  prairie  strip  in the  neighborhood  of  Terre  Haate.
Subsequent  to  the  Treaty  of  Greenville,  their  demoralization was  rapid  in  its  progress  and  terrible  in  its  consequences.  So much  so,  that  when  the  Baptist  missionary,  tlie  Rev,  Isaac  McCoy, was  among  them  between  rhe  years  1817  and  1822,  and  drawing his  conclusions  from  his  own  observation,  he  declared  that  the Miamis  were  not  a  waiiike  |)eople.  At  the  villages  on  Sugar Creek,  Eel  River,  and  the  Mississineway,  and  particularly  at  Ft. AVayne,  it  was  a  continuous  round  of  drunken  debauchery  when- ever whisky  could  be  obtained,  of  which  men,  women,  and  chil- dren partook  alike;  and  life  was  often  sacrificed  in  personal  broils, or  by  exposure  of  the  debauchees  to  the  inclemency  of  the weather.
By  treaties,  entered  into  at  various  times  from  1795  ^^  1845, the  Miamis  ceded  their  lands  in  Ohio,  Indiana,  and  Illinois,  and removed  west  of  the  Mississippi;  going  in  villages  or  by  detach- ments from  time  to  time.  In  1838,  at  a  single  cession,  they  sold the  U.  S.  Government  177,000  acres  of  land  in  Indiana,  which was  only  a  fragment  of  tiieir  former  possessions,  still  retaining large  tracts.  Thus  they  alienated  their  heritage  piece  by  piece  to make  room  for  the  incoming  white  population,  while  they  gradu- ally disappeared  from  the  valleys  of  the  Wabash  and  Maumee. Few  of  them  clung  to  their  reservations,  adapted  themselves  to the  ways  of  the  Americans,  and  their  descendants  are  now  to  be met  with  in  or  about  the  cities  that  have  sprung  up  in  the  locali- ties named.  The  money  received  from  the  sales  of  their  lands jjroved  a  calamity,  as  the  proceeds  ^v•ere  wasted  for  whisky.
The  last  of  the  Miamis  to  go  westward  was  the  Mississineway band.  This  remnant,  comprising  in  all  about  350  persons,  in charge  of  Christmas  Dazney,*  left  their  old  homes,  where  many  of
*  His  name  was  also  spelled  Dz/.uey,  Dashney,  and  Daynett,  the  latter being  the  French  orthography.  He  was  born  Dec.  25,  1799,  at  the  so-calied "Lower  Wea  Village",  or  "Old  Orchard  Town",  or  '•  lVe-on-ta-no^\  [The Kising  Sun],  wiiliin  the  southern  .-uburbs  of  the  present  City  of  Terre  IIau»^^c.
8
I  1 1
I
114  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
them  had  form  houses  and  had  made  considerable  progress  in agriculture,  in  the  fall  of  1846,  going  to  Cincinnati.  Here  tiiey were  placed  on  a  steamboat,  taken  down  the  Ohio,  up  the  Missis- sippi and  Missouri,  and  landed,  late  in  the  season,  at  Westport, near  Kansas  City.     Ragged  men  and  nearly  naked  women  and
Ind.  His  father,  Ambroise  Dagney,  was  a  native  P^renchman,  of  Kaskaslda, and  served  throvighout  the  Tippecanoe  campaign,  in  Capt.  Scott's  Company of  Militia,  raised  at  Vincennes.  He  received  a  severe  flesh  wound  at  the battle  near  the  Prophet's  Town;  lived  for  many  years  with  his  daughter, Mary  Cott,  formerly  Mary  Shields,  on  a  reservation  secured  to  her  hty  the Treaty  of  St.  Mary's,  Oct.  2,  1S18,  and  situated  at  the  ancient  Indian  village near  the  "Vermilion  Salines",  some  four  miles  west  of  Danville,  111.,  where he  died  and  was  buried,  in  184S.  He  was  well  known  to  the  early  citizens of  Danville,  and  of  the  Wabash  Valley  from  iJanville  to  Vincennes.  Upon all  convivial  occasions,  which  were  by  no  means  infrequent,  he  indulged  his fondness  for  telling  over  the  many  thrilling  incidents  and  dangerous  experi- ences of  his  wild  nomadic  life,  as  hunter,  trapper,  boatsman,  guide,  and soldier.  He  boasted  the  fact  of  a  personal  acquaintance  with  Gov.  Harrison, whose  memory  he  held  in  the  highest  esteem;  and  anathematized  with  volu- able  profanity,  all  "  bad  Inguns  ",  as  he  called  those  who  were  unfriendly  to the  whites.
Ambroise  Dagney's  wife  —  the  only  one  he  ever  had,  and  the  mother  of Cnristmas  Dagney  and  Mary  Cott,  was  Me-chiu-quani-e-sha,  [The  lit-autiful Shade  Tree],  a  sister  of  Jocco,  or  Jack-ke-kee-kah,  [The  Tall  Oak],  head chief  of  the  \Yea  Band  of  Miamis,  whose  old  and  pruicipal  village  was- the  one  we  have  named  near  Terre  Haute.  Later,  this  band  went  higher up  the  Wabash  to  a  secondary  village  near  the  mouth  of  Sugar  Creek.
Under  the  instruction  of  Catholic  teachers,  the  son,  Christmas  Dagnay  re- ceived a  good  education.  He  spoke  the  English  and  French  languages  with great  fluency,  and  was  master  of  the  dialects  of  the  several  Indiana  and  Illi- nois Indians.  He  served  for  many  years  at  Fort  Harrison  [on  the  east  bank of  the  Wabash,  near  and  above  Terre  Haute],  and  elsewhere,  as  Government interpreter  and  Indian  agent,  filling  these  various  ipositions  of  confidence  and trust  efficiently  and  honestly.  Feb.  16,  1819,  he  was  married  to  Mary  Ann Isaacs,  an  educated  Chrisuan  woman,  of  the  Brothertown,  N.V.  [Mohegan] Indians,  whose  acquaintance  he  had  made  while  she  was  spending  a  few weeks  on  a  visit  at  the  Mission  Hou»e  of  Rev.  Isaac  McCoy,  then  situated  on Raccoon  Creek,  near  Kosedale,  Park -Co.,  Ind.  Mr,  McCoy  performed  the marriage  ceremony,  as  he  says,  "in  the  presence  of  our  Indian  neighbors, who  were  invited  to  attend;  and  we  had  the  happiness  to  have  twenty-three of  the  natives  partake  of  a  m.eal  prepared  for  the  occasion. "
Christmas  Dagney  died  in  184S,  at  Cold  Water  Grove,  Kansas,  and  his widov,'  subsequently  married^  Br.pt!>te  Peoria,  mentioned  in  a  note  further  on.
THE    MIAMIS.  ■  115
children,  forming  a  motley  group,  were  huddled  upon  the  shore of  a  strange  land,  without  food  or  friends  to  relieve  tlveir  wants and  exposed  to  the  bitter  December  winds  that  bl-.^w  from  tlvj chilly  plains  of  Kansas.
From  Westport  the  ^lississineways  were  conducted  to  a  place near  the  present  village  of  Lewisburg,  Kansas,  in  the  county  since named  r^Iiami.  They  suffered  greatly  and  nearly  one-third  of their  number  died  the  hrst  year.  Mrs.  Mary  Babtisie  Peoria,  tlien wife  of  Christmas  Dazney.  the  agent  having  these  unfortunate people  in  charge,  and  v\-]io  accompanied  her  husband  in  this  work, stated  to  the  writer  -'that  strong  men  would  actually  cry  when they  thought  about  tliei*"  old  homes  in  Indiana,  to  \\liich  many  of them  would  make  journeys  bare-footed,  begging  their  way  and submitting  to  the  imprecations  hurled  upon  them  from  the  door of  the  white  man  as  they  asked  for  a  crust  of  bread.  1  saw fathers  and  mothers  give  their  little  children  away  to  others  of  the tribe  for  adoption,  and  then  singing  their  funeral  songs  and  join- ing in  the  solemn  dance  of  death.  Afterward  go  calmly  away from  the  assemblage,  never  again  to  be  seen  alive."
In  1670,  the  Jesuit  father,  Claude  Dablon,  introduces  to  our notice  the  Miamis  at  the  village  of  Maskoutench;  where,  as  we have  already  shown,  the  chief  was  surrounded  by  his  officers  of state  in  all  the  routine  of  barbaric  display,  to  whom  the  natives of  other  tribes  paid  the  greatest  deference.  Advancing  eastv/ard, in  the  rear  line  of  their  valorous  warriors,  the  Miamis  pushed their  villages  through  Illinois  into  Michigan  and  Indiana,  and  as far  into  Ohio  as  the  river  still  bearing  their  name.  Coming  in collision  with  the  French,  the  British,  and  the  Americans;  reduced by  constant  wars;  and  decimated,  more  than  all,  b/  vices  con- tracted by  intercourse  with  a  superior  race,  whose  virtues  they failed  to  emulate,  they  make  a  westward  turn;  and  having  in  the progress  of  time  described  the  round  of  a  most  singular  journey, we  at  last  behold  the  miserable  remnant  on  the  same  side  of  the Mississippi  from  whence  their  warlike  progenitors  had  come  nearly two  centuries  before.
The  Wea  and  Piankeshaw  band  had  preceded  the  Mississine- way  to  the  westward;  they  too  had  become  reduced  to  about  two hundred  and  fifty  persons.  They,  with  the  Miamis  and  remain- ing fragments  of  the  Kaskaskias^.the  latter  containing  under  that name  what  yet  remained  of  the  several  subdivisions  of  the  old mini  confederacy,  were  collected  by  Baptiste  Peoria  and  consoli- dated under  the  title  of  Tlie  Confederated  Tribes.*     This  little
*  This  remarkable  man  was  the  son  of  a  daughter  of  a  sub-chief  of  the
Il6                    ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS..  I
confederation  sold  out  their  reservations  in  Miami  County,  Kan-  |
sas,  and  retired  to  a  tract  of  reduced  dimensions  within  the  Indian  |
Peoria  Tribe,  and  was  born,  accordinjj  to  the  best  information,  in  1 793,  near       ■  j
the  confluence  of  the  Kankakee  and  Maple,  as  the  DesPlaines  River  wa-;  |
called  by  the  Illinois  Indians.      His  reputed  father's  name  was  Baptisie,  a  i
French  Canadian  and  trader,  among  the  Peoria  Band.      Young  Peoria  wa.<  j
called  Batticy,  by  his  mother;  later  in  life,   he  was  known  as  Baptise  "//^t'  *
Peoria",  and  finally,  as  Baptiste  Peoria.     The  people  of  his  tribe  gave  the  1
name  a  liquid  sound,  pronouncing  the  name  as  if  it  w  ere  spelled  Paola.    The  /
county-seat  of  .Miam.i  Co.,  Kansas,   is  nam.ed  after  him.      He  was  a  man  of  > large  stature,  and  possessed  of  great  strength,  activity,  and  courage;  and,  like Keokuk,   the  great  chief  of  the  Sac-and-Fox  Indians,  a  fearless  and  expert
horseman.      Having  a  ready  command  of  the  French  and  English  languages,         "'  I and  being  familiar,  as  well,  with  the  several  dialects  of  the  Pottav/atomies,
Shavvnees,   Delawares,   Miamis,  Illinois,  and  Kickapoos;  these  qualifications  ;'
as  a  linguist  soon  brought  him  into  prominence  among  the  Indians,  while  his        '  J
known   integrity  as   readily  commended  his  services   to  the  United   States.  J
Fromihe  year  1821  to  1838,  he  was  employed  in  assisting  the  removal  of  the  'I
above  tribes  from  Indiana  and  Illinois  to  their  respective  reservations  west-  ji.
ward  of  the  Missouri.      His  duties  in  these  relations  brought  him  in  contact  I
with  many  of  the  early  settlers  on  the  Illinois,  the  Kaskaskia,  and  the  Wa-      "  |
bash  Rivers  and  their  constituent  streams.      He  represented  his  tribe  at  the  |
Treaty  of  Fdwardsville,  111.,  September  25,  t8i8.      By  this  treaty,  at  which  |
there  were  present  representatives  from  each  of  the  five  Tribes  comprising  the  ^
Illinois  or  Illini  nation,  it  appears  that  for  a  period  of  years  anterior  to  that  |
time,  the  Peoria  band  had  lived  and  were  then  living  separate  and  apart  from  'f
the  others.  |
Bapti.-,te  Peoria  was  in  the  service  of  the  General  Government  for  nearly        .   .  f
thirty  years,  in  the  Inclian   Department;  and  in  1S67,   became  head  chief  of  ^
the  consolidated  Miami  and  Illinois  tribes,  and  went  with  them  to  their  newly-     ,  t
assigned  reservation  in  the  north-east  part  of  the  Indian  Territory,  where  he  ^.
died  at  an  advanced  age,   Sept.  13,  1873.       Some  years  before,  he  married  f
Mrs.  Mary  Dayney,  widow  of  Christm.as  Dagney,  and  to  this  lady  is  the  author  |
indebted  for  copies  of  the  "Western  Spirit",  and  the  "Fort  Scott  Monitor",        .  I
newspapers  pubii-^h.ed  at  Paola  and  Ft.  Scott,  Kansas,  respectively,  containing  ts
Vjiographical   skciches  and  obituary  notices  of  her  late  husband,  from  wliich  |
this  note  ha-,  in  the  main,  been  collated.  |
It  may  well  be  said  that  Ba[)tiste  was  J'.The   Last  of  the  Peorias".      By  -♦
precept  and  example  he  spent  the  better  portion  of  a  l;usy  life  in  persistent  | efforts  to  save  tlic  fragment  of  the  Illinois  and  Miamis  by  encouraging  them to  adopt  the  ways  of  civilized  life.      His  widow,  Mary  Baptiste,  f/fcf  Dagney, si'.rvives,  and  is  living  in  her  elegant  homestead  at   Paoli,  Kansas,   in  com- fortable circumstances.
THE    MIAMIS.  117
Territory.  Since  this  last  change  of  location,  in  1S67,  they  have made  but  Uttle  progress  toward  a  higher  civihzation.  Those  that remain  of  the  once  numerous  Ihini  and  Miami  tribes  ^re  now reduced  to  less  than  two  hundred  persons,  and  for  the  most  part are  a  listless,  idle  people,  possessing  none  of  the  spirit  that  had inspired  the  breasts  of  their  ancestors.
THE  KICKAPOOS.
The  Kickapoos  and  ]\Iascoutins  are  treated  here  as  but  one tribe,  for  the  difference  between  them  was  only  nominal  at  best. The  name  is  found  written  in  French  authorities  as  "Kic-a- poux'',  "Kick-a-pous",  ''Kik-a-poux'\  "Kik-a-bou",  "Q^ick-a- pous",  and  ''Kick-a-pous".  Some  authors  claim  the  name  to have  been  derived  from  the  Algonquin  word  N'ee-gig  [the  otter, or  the  spirit  of  an  otter].  Prof.  Henry  R.  Schoolcraft,  a  recog- nized authority  on  the  ethnology  of  the  northwestern  tribes, alluding  to  tlie  Kickapoos,  says,  they  are  "an  erratic  race,  who, under  various  names,  in  connection  with  the  Sacs  and  Foxes, have,  in  good  keeping  with  one  of  their  many  names,  which  is .aid,  by  one  interpretation,  to  mean  'Rabbits-Ghost'  [Wah- boos,  with  little  variation  in  dialect,  being  the  word  for  rabbit], skipped  over  half  the  continent,  to  the  manifest  discomfort  of both  German  and  Americ;in  philologists  and  ethnographers,  who, in  searching  for  the  so-called  'Mascontens',  have  followed,  so  far as  their  results  are  concerned,  an  ignis  fat uiis'\
This  tribe  has  been  long  connected  with  the  history  of  the Northwest,  in  which  they  acquired  great  notoriety,  as  well  for the  wars  in  which  they  were  engaged  with  other  tribes,  as  for their  presistent  hostility  to  the  white  race  throughout  a  period  of nearly  one  hundred  and  fifty  years.  They  are  first  noticed  by the  French  explorer,  Samuel  Champlain,  who,  in  161 2,  discovered the  "Ma.scoutins  residing  near  the  place  called  Sak-in-am", — or, rather,  Sac-e-nong,  meaning,  in  Chippeway,  the  country  of  the Sacs,  which,  at  this  time,  con^prised  that  part  of  the  State  of Michigan,  lying  between  the  head  of  Lake  Erie  and  Saginaw Pay,  on  Lake  Huron.  In  1669-70,  as  seen  in  an  extract  from I'ather  .Vllouez,  rjuoted  in  the  chapter  relating  to  the  Mianus, the  Kickai>oos  and  Mascoutins  were  found  in  connection  with the  Miamis,  near  the  mouth  of  Fox  River,  ^Visconsin.  In  the same   letter,    Father  Allouez   says   that  'Tour  leagues   from   this
Il8  ILLIXOIS   AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
mixed  village  are  the  Kickabou,  who  speak  the  same  language  |
with  the  Mascoutench '*'.'•'  I
This  people  were  not  pliant  material  in  the  hands  of  the  i.^is-  |
sionaries.     In  fact,  they  appear  to  have  acquired  early  notorie.y  \
in  history  by  seizing  Father  Gabriel  Ribourde  as  he  was  walking  |
near  the  banks  of  the  Illinois  River,  absorbed  in  religious  mecU-  |
tati9n,  and  whom  they  ''carried  away,  and  broke  his  head",  as  i
Henry  de  Tonti  quaintly  expresses  it,  in  referring  to  this  ruthless  1
murder.     Again,  in  1728,  as  Father  Ignatius  Guignas,  compelled  |
to  abandon  his  mission  among  the  Sioux,  on  account  of  a  victory  f
which  the  Foxes  had  obtained  over  the  French,  was  attempting  |
to  reach  the  Illinois,  he,  too,  fell  into  the  hands  of  the   Kicka-  f
poos  and  Mascoutens,  and  for  five  months  was  held  a  captive,  |
and  constantly  exposed  to  death.     During  this  time  he  was  con-  |:
demned  to  be  burned,  and  was  only  saved  through  die  kindly  t
intervention  of  an  old  man  in  the  tribe,  who  adopted  him  as  a  |
son.     While  a  prisoner,  his  brother  missionaries  of  the  Illinois  |
relieved  his  necessities  by  sending  timely  supplies,  which  Father  |
*  The  Mascoutins,   in  the  works  of  French  authors,  appear  as  "  Mascou-  I
tench",    "Mackkoutench",    -'Machkouteng",    "Masqutins",    and    •' Maskou-  I'
teins".     English  and  American  called  them  "Masquattimies",  "Mascoutins",  |
"Musquitons",  "Musquitos",  a  corruption  used  by  American  colonial  traders,  |
and  "Meaows",  v.liich  was  the  English  synonym  for  the  Frencii  word  prairie,  |
before  the  latter  had  become  naturalized  into  the  English  language.  I
The  derivation  of  the  name  was  a  subject  of  discussion  among  the  early  |
French  missionaries.      Father  Marquette,  with  some  others  who  followed  the  |
Huron   Indian  rendition  of  it,  says,    "Maskoutens  in  Algonquin  may  mean  |
Fire  Nation",   and  this  is  the  "name  given   them";  while  Fathers  Allouez  |
and  Charlevoix  (v/hose  opportunities  to  know  were  better),  together  with  the  i
still  more  recent  American  authors,  claims  that  the  word  signifies  a  prairie  or  |
"a  land  bare  of  trees".     The  Ojebway  word  for  prairie  is  '■'■  Miisk-koo-da'\  |
Bands  of  the  same  tribe  on  the  upper  Mississippi,  on  the  authority  of  Dr.  |
James,  call  it  Mjts-ko-tia.     Its  derivitive  or  root  is  Ish-koo-ta,   skoutay,  or  |
scote  (ethnologists  differ  as  to  its  orthography),  and  which  is  the  algonquin  .|
word  for  Jire.     The  great  plains  westward  of  the  Wabash  and  the  lakes,  was  |
truly  "a  land  barren  of  trees",   kept  so  by  the  annually  recurring  fires  that  |
swept  over  through  the  tall  grass  in  billows  of  flame  and  smoke;  and  this  dis-  ? tinguishing  feature  is  aptly  preserved  in  the  name  the  Indians  gave  it.     Major Forsyth,  long  a  trader  at  Peoria,   in  his  manuscript  account  of  the  Indian tribes  of  his  acquaintance,  quoted  by  Dr.  Drake  in  his  Life  of  Black  Hawk, says,   "The  Mascos  or  Mascoutins  were,  by  French  traders  of  a  more  recent
day,  called  gens  des  pmiries  [men  of  the  prairie],  and  lived  and  hunted  on  ^
the  great  prairies  between  the  Wabash  and  Illinois  Rivers".  |
THE    KICKAPOOS.  II9
viuignas  used  to  gain  over  iht::  good  will  of  his  captors.  Having induced  them  to  make  peace,  he  was  taken  to  one  of  the  Ilhnois missions,  where  he  was  suffered  to  remain  or  parole  until  Nov., 1729,  when  his  captors  returned  and  took  him  back  to  their  own countr)^;  since  which  it  seems  nothing  has  ever  been  heard  of him.
The  Kickapoos  early  incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  PVench by  depredations  south  of  Detroit.  In  17 12,  a  band  of  them, living  in  a  village  near  the  mouth  of  the  Maumee  River,  in  com- pany with  about  thirty  Mascoutens,  were  about  to  make  war upon  the  French  Post  at  Detroit.  They  look  ,  risoner  one  Lang- lois,  a  messenger,  on  his  return  from  the  Miami  country,  whither he  was  bringing  many  letters  from  the  Jesuit  fathers  of  the  sev- eral Illinois  villages,  as  well,  also,  despatches  from  Louisiana, 'i'he  mauraders  destroyed  the  letters  and  despatches,  which  gave much  uneasiness  to  M.  Du  Boisson,- commandant  at  Detroit, As  a  result  of  this  act,  a  canoe,  laden  with  Kickapoos  on  their way  to  the  villages  near  Detroit,  was  captured  by  the  Hurons ^iiid  Ottawas,  residing  near  by,  and  who  were  allies  of  the  French. Among  the  slain  was  the  principal  Kickapoo  chief,  whose  head, with  three  others  of  the  same  tribe,  were  brought  to  Du  Boisson, who  informs  us  "that  the  Hurons  and  Ottawas  committed  this act  for  the  alleged  reason,  that  the  previous  winter  the  Kjcka- poos  had  taken  some  of  the  Hurons  and  Iroquois  prisoners,  and also  because  they  had  considered  the  Kickapoo  chief  a  "true Outtagamis";  that  is,  they  regarded  him  as  one  of  the  Fox  nation.
From  the  village  of  ^dachkouterich,  on  Fox  River,  Wis.,  the Kickapoos  seemed  to  have  passed  to  tne  south,  extending  their right  tiank  in  the  direction  of  Rock  River,  and  their  left  toward the  southern  trend  of  Lake  Michigan.  Prior  to  17 18,  they  had villages  on  Rock  River  and  in  the  vicinity  of  Chicago.  Indeed, Rock  River  appears  as  Kickapoo  River  on  cotemporaneous French  maps.
In  17 1 2,  the  Mascoutins  entered  the  plot  formed  for  the  cap- ture of  the  post  of  Detroit;  their  associates  repaired  to  the T^-eighborhood,  and,  whereas  they  were  awaiting  the  arrival  of  the Kickapoos,  they  were  attacked  by  a  confederation  of  Indians, v.ho  v/ere  friendly  to  the  French  and  had  hastei-ied  to  the  relief ^jf  the  garrison.  The  destruction  that  followed  this  attempt -gainst  Detroit,  was,  perhaps,  onc'^of  the  most  remorseless,  in v.hich  white  men  took  a  part,  of  which  we  ha\e  an  account  in the  annals  of  Indian  warfare,  l^he  French  and  Indian  foices, ^fter  protracted  efibrts,  compelled  the  eneiny  to  abandon  their position   and   fiee   to   Presque  Isle,  opposite    Hog   Island,  near
120  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
Lake  St.. Clair,  some  distance  above  the  fort.  Here  they  held out  for  four  days;  iheir  women  and  children,  in  the  meantime, actually  starving,  numbers  of  whom  were  dying  e^-ery  day  from hunger.  Messengers  were  sent  to  the  French  commander,  beg- ging for  quarter,  and  oftering  to  surrender  at  discretion,  only craving  that  the  remaining  survivors  might  be  spared  the  horrors of  a  general  massacre.  Perpetual  servitude  as  the  slaves  of  vic- tors; anything  rather  than  a  wholesale  destruction.  The  Indian allies  of  the  French  would  listen  to  no  terms.  "At  the  end  of fourth  day",  Se^ys  the  French  commander,  "after  lighting  with much  courage,  and  not  being  able  to  resist  further  the  Muscotins surrendered  at  discretion  to  our  people,  who  gave  them  no  quar- ter. Our  Indians  lost  sixty  men,  killed  and  wounded.  The enemy  lost  a  thousand  souls — men,  women,  and  children.  All our  allies  returned  to  our  fort  [at  Detroit]  with  their  slaves  [cap- tives], and  their  amj.isement  was  to  shoot  four  or  five  of  them every  day.     The  Hurons  did  not  spare  a  single  one  of  tlieirs  ".
From  references  given,  it  is  apparent  that  this  people,  like  the Miamis  and  Pottawatomies,  were  progressing  south  and  eastward. This  movement  was  probably  caused  by  the  Sioux,  whose  fierce warriors  were  pressing  them  from  the  northwest.  As  early  as 1695,  the  Foxes,  with  the  Kickapoos  and  Mascoutins,  were meditating  a  migration  toward  the  Wabash  as  a  place  of  security. From  an  ofticial  document  sent  from  Quebec,  relating  to  the occurrences  in  Canada  during  that  year,  the  department  at  Paris is  advised  "that  the  Sioux,  who  have  mustered  some  two  thou- sand warriors  for  the  purpose,  would  come  in  large  numbers  and seize  their  village.  This  has  caused  the  Outagamies  to  quit  their country  and  disperse  themselves  for  a  season,  and  afterward  to
•  return  and  save  their  harvest.  They  are  then  to  retire  toward the  Wabash  and  form  a  settlement  so  much  the  more  permanent,
■  as  they  will  be  removed  from  the  incursions  of  the  Sioux,  and  in a  position  to  easily  effect  a  junction  with  the  Iroc[uois  and  Fng- lish,  without  the  French  being  able  to  present  it.  Should  this project  be  realized,  it  is  very  apparent  that  the  Mascotins  and the  Kickapoos  will  be  of  the  party,  and  that  the  three  tribes, forming  a  new  village  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  hundred  men,  would experience  no  difficulty  in  considerably  increasing  it  by  attracting other  nations  tlnthor,  which  would  be  of  most  pernicious  con- sequences'.  That  tlie  Mascou'tins,  at  least,  did  go  soon  after this  toward  the  lower  Wabash,  is  shown  by  the  fact  of  their presence  about  Jucliercau's  trading-post,  which  erected  near  the mouth  of  the  Olfio,  in  the  year  1700.  It  is  questionable,  how- ever, if  either  the  Foxes  or  Kickapoos  followed  the  Muscoutins
-   ..  .     THE    KICKAPOOS.  .  12  1
to  the  Wabash  country,  and  it  is  evident  that  the  Mascoiitins,  who survived  the  epidemic,  that  broke  out  among  them  while  at Juchereau"s  post,  returned  to  the  north.  The  French  having effected  a  concihation  with  the  Sioux,  we  find  that,  for  a  number of  years  subsequent  to  1705,  the  ]\Iascoutins  were  again  back among  their  afiinities.  the  Foxes  and  Kickapoos  upon  their  com- mon hunting  grounds  in  northern  Uhnois  and  southern  Wisconsin. Later,  and  by  ]^rogressive  approaches,  the  Kickapoos  worked further  southward,  and  estabhshed  themselves  in  the  territory lying  between  the  Illinois  and  Wabash  Rivers,  and  soutli  of  tlie Kankakee.  This  migration  was  not  accomplished  without  oppo- sition and  blood  shed  in  punishing  the  Piankeshaws  east  and south  to  the  Wabash,  and  the  Illinois  tribes  south  and  west  upon the  lower  waters  of  the  Kaskaskia.  We  are  without  authentic data  as  to  the  period  of  the  time  when  this  concpiest  was  con- sumated.  At  the  treaty,  ocncluded  at  Edwardsville,  III.,  July  30^ 1 81 9,  between  Augusta  Chouteau  and  Benjamin  Stephenson, commissioners  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  and  the  prin- cipal chiefs  and  warriers  of  the  Kickapoo  tribe,  the  latter  ceded the  following  lands,  residue  of  their  domain  until  then  undis- posed of,  Tiz.:  "Beginning  on  the  \\  abash,  at  the  upper  point  of their  cession  made  by  the  second  Article  of  their  Treaty  at  Vm- cennes,  on  the  9th  day  of  December,  1809;'"  running  thence northwestwardly  to  the  dividing  line  between  the  State  of  Illinois and  Indiana:  thence  north  along  said  line  to  the  Kankakee; thence  with  said  river  to  the  Illinois  River;  thence  down  the latter  to  its  mouth;  thence  with  a  direct  line  to  the  northwest  cor- ner of  the  Vincennes  tracts  as  recognized  in  the  Treaty  with  the Piankashaw  tribe  of  Indians  at  Vincennes,  on  the  30th  day  of December,    1805  :t    and    thence  with  the  western  and  northern
*  The  beginning  point  here  referred  to  is  "on  the  Wabash",  at  the  mouth of  the  Big  Vermilion  River.  By  previous  cessions  it  appears  that  t'ue acknov.'Iedged  territory  of  tlie  Kickapoos  extended  down  the  Wabash  nearly as  far  as  Vincennes.  Vide  9th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  September  30,  1S09, concluded  at  Ft.  Wayne,  between  the  United  States  and  the  Delewares,  Pot- tawatomics,  Miamis,  and  Eel  River  tribes;  Treaty  of  Vincennes  of  Dec.  9, 1809,  between  the  United  .Stales  and  the  Kickapoos.
T  The  boundaries  of  "the  Vincennes  tract"  were  settled  by  the  terms  of  the treaty  at  P't.  Wayne,  July  7,  1803,  between  Gov.  Harrison  of  the  Indiana Territory  (which,  at  that  time,  embraced  all  of  the  present  Stales  of  Michigan, Indiana,  Illinois,  and  Wisconsin),  and  the  several  Deleware,  Shawnee,  Tot- tawatomie,  Miami,  Lei  River,  Wea,  Piankeshaw,  Kickapoo,  and  Kaskaskia tribes  within  his  jurisdiction.     The  first  Article  of  this  treaty  also  explains
f
I
122  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
boundaries  of  the  cessions  heretofore  made  by  the  said  Kick?4)oo tribe  of  Indians,''^  to  the  beginning.  Of  whicJi  last  described  tract of  iafid,  the  said  Kickafoo  tribe  claim  a  large  portion  by  descent from  their  ancestors,  and  the  balance  by  conqnest  from  the  Illinois nation,  and  uninterrupted  possession  for  7nore  than  half  a  century^'. The  claim  of  the  Kickapoos  to  the  country  referred  to  does  not rest  alone  upon  the  assertion  of  the  Kickapoos,  but  is  supported by  officers  of  the  French.  English,  and  American  governments, when  tiiey  respectively  asserted  dominion  over  it.  Under  date of  April  2ist,  1752,  ^L  de  Longueil,  commandant  at  Detroii. incorporates  in  an  official  report  upon  the  condition  of  Indian affairs  in  his  department,  that  he  had  received  advices  from *'jNL  de  Lingeris,  commandaait  at  the  Oy-a-ta-nons,+  who  believes that  great  reliance  is  not  to  be  placed  on  the  Mascoutens,  and
the  reasons  that  led  to  its  consumation.  It  is  as  follows :  "  Whereas,  it  is declared  by  the  4th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Greenville,  that  the  United States  reserve  for  their  use  the  post  of  Vincennes,  and  all  the  lands  adjacent, to  wliich  the  Indian  titles  have  been  extinguished.  And,  whereas,  it  has  been found  difficult  to  determine  the  precise  limits  of  said  tract  as  held  by  the French  and  British  Governments;  it  is  hereby  agreed,  that  the  boundaries  of said  tract  shall  be  as  follows:  Beginning  at  Point  Coupee  ["cut-off"  or  noted bend  in  the  river  some  eighteen  miles  above  Vincennes],  on  the  Wabash,  and running  thence,  by  a  north  seventy-eight  degrees  \  -est,  twelve  m.iles  [into  Illi- nois]; thence  [south  by  west]  by  a  line  parallel  to  the  general  cpurse  of  the Wabash,  until  it  shall  be  intersected  by  a  line  at  right  angles  to  the  same, passing  through  the  mouth  of  White  River  [about  eighteen  miles  below  Vin- cennes]; thence,  by  the  last  mentioned  line  [east  by  south],  across  the  Wabash and  toward  the  Ohio  River,  seventy-two  miles;  thence  by  a  line  north  tvv-elve degrees  west,  until  it  shall  be  intersected  by  a  line  at  right  angles  with  the same,  passing  through  I\^inf  Coupee,  and,  by  the  last  mentioned  line,  to  the place  of  beginning."  The  boundaries  of  "the  ^'incennes  tract",  as  thus defined,  appear  on  many  of  the  early  maps,  and  displays  a  tract  of  land  in the  shape  of  a  parallelogram,  some  thirty-six  miles  wide,  by  seventy- two long,  lying,  for  the  m.ost  part,  on  the  east  side  of  the  Wabash  and  in  Indiana, an  average  width  of  about  ten  miles,  only,  off  of  the  west  end  of  it  being  in Illinois,  the  northwest  corner  of  which,  referred  to  in  the  text,  is  about twenty  miles  north,  and  some  ten  miles  west  of  Vincennes.
*  By  previous  treaties,  the  Kickaj)00s  had  ceded  to  the  United  States  their claims  to  the  territory  from  "the  Vincennes  tract"  as  high  up  the  Wabash  a^ the  mouth  of  Tine  Creek,  Warren  Co.,  Ind.,  and  extending  west  of  the  same stream  an  average  width  of  thirty  miles.
t  P^ort  Ouiatanon  situated  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Wabash  River,  a  few- miles  above  Attica,  Ind.  .  >         .  ■  •
THE    KICK  A  POOS.  1 23
that  their  remaining  Deutral  is  all  that  is  to  be  expected  from them  and  the  Kickapoos."  Later,  and  after  the  northwest  terri- tory had  been  lost  to  France  and  ceded  to  Great  Britain  as  the fruit  of  the  French  colonial  war,  and  after  the  failure  of  the Indian  confederation  under  Pontiac  to  reconquer  the  same  terri- tory, Sir  William  Johnson,  having  in  charge  the  Indian  aftairs  of the  western  nations,  sent  his  deputy,  George  Croghan,  to  the Illinois  to  pacify  the  Indians  "to  soften  their  antipathy  to  the English,  to  expose  the  falsehood  of  the  French,  to  distribute presents,  and  prepare  a  way  for  the  passage  of  troops*'*  who were  preceding  westward  to  take  possession  of  Fort  Chartes  and other  military  establishments  within  the  ceded  territory.  Croghan left  Fort  Pitt  on  May  tyth,  1765,  starting  down  the  Ohio  in  two batteaux,  having  with  him  several  white  persons,  and  a  number of  Deleware,  Iroquois,  and  Shawnee  Indians,  as  deputies  of tribes  inhabiting  the  upper  waters  of  the  Ohio,  with  whom Croghan  had  already  concluded  treaties  of  reconciliation  toward the  British.  On  the  evening  of  the  6th  of  June,  Croghan reached  the  motith  of  the  Wabash.  They  dropped  down  the river  six  miles,  "and  came  to  a  place  called  the  old  vShawnee village,  some  of  that  nation  having  previously  lived  there''.  He remained  here  the  next  day,  occupying  his  time  in  preparing  and sending  despatches  to  Fort  Chartes.  We  quote  from  his  journal: "On  the  8th,  at  daybreak,  we  were  attacked  by  a  party  of  Indi- ans, consisting  of  eighty  warriors  of  the  Kickapoos  and  Musqua- timies,  who  killed  two  of  my  men  and  three  Indians,  wounded myself  and  all  the  rest  of  my  party,  except  two  white  men  and one  Indian;  then  made  myself  and  all  the  white  men  prisoners, plundering  us  of  everything  we  had.  A  deputy  of  the  Shawnees, who  was  shot  through  the  thigh,  having  concealed  himself  in  the woods  for  a  few  minutes  after  he  was  shot — not  knowing  but  that they  were  southern  Indians,  who  were  always  at  war  with  the northward  Indians — after  discovering  what  nation  they  were, came  np  to  them  and  made  a  very  bold  speech,  telling  them  that the  whole  northward  Indians  would  join  in  taking  revenge  for the  insult  and  murder  of  their  people.  This  alarmed  those  sav- ages very  much,  who  began  to  excuse  themselves,  saying,  their fathers,  the  French,  had  spirited  them  up,  telling  them  that  the Indians  were  coming  witli  a  large  body  of  southern  Indians  to take  their  country  from  them  and  enslave  them;  that  it  was  this that  induced  them  to  commit  this  outrage.  After  dividing  the plunder  (they  left  a  great  part  of  the  heaviest  eftects  behind),  they set  off  with  us  to  tJicir  village  of  Ou-at-to-no}i  in  a  great  hurry,
*  Vide  Parkman's  History  Conspiracy  of  Pontiac.
124  ILLINOIS   AND   INDIANA   INDIANS.
being  in  dread  of  a  large  part}^  of  Indians,  which  they  suspected were  coming  after  me.  Our  course  was  through  a  thick  wood\' country,  crossing  a  great  many  swamps,  morrasses,  and  beaver ponds. ''^  From  the  data  given,  taken  with  the  well-estabUshed historical  fact  that  the  Kickapoos  approached  the  Wabash  from- the  northwest,  it  is  evident  that,  prior  to  1752,  they  had  driven the  Illinois  tribes  from  the  hunting  grounds  lying  eastward  and south  of  the  Illinois  River.     In  this  conquest  they  were  assisted
*  The  war  party  continued  up  the  river  the  Qth,  loth,  nth,  12th,  13th,  and 14th;  and  on  the  15th  reached  Vincennes.  "'On  my  arrival  there",  says Croghan,  "I  found  a  viilac^e  of  eighty  or  ninety  French  families,  seated  on the  east  side  of  the  river,  being  the  one  of  the  finest  situations  that  can  be found.  The  country  is  level  and  clear,  the  soil  very  rich,  producing  wheat and  tobacco.  I  think  tlie  latter  preferable  to  that  of  Maryland  or  Virginia. The  French  inhabitants  hereabouts  are  an  idle,  lazy  people,  a  parcel  of  rene- gades from  Canada,  and  much  worse  than  the  Indians.  They  took  a  secret pleasure  at  our  misfortunes,  and  the  moment  we  arrived  they  came  to  the Indians,  exchanging  trifles  for  their  valuable  plunder.  As  the  savages  took from  me  a  considerable  quantity  of  gold  and  silver,  the  French  traders  ex- torted ten  half  Johnies  from  them  for  one  pound  of  Vermilion.  Here  i.-; likewise  an  Indian  village  of  the  I'yan-ke-shaws  [in  their  language  calkd *  Chip-kaw-kay',  rendered  the  town  of  Ihushtvood.  Dillon's  History  of  Indi- ana,] who  were  much  displeased  with  the  party  that  took  me,  telling  thera that  'our  and  your  chiefs  are  gone  to  malce  peace,  and  you  have  begun  a  war for  which  our  women  and  children  will  have  reason  to  cry. '  *  *  *  Port Vincent  is  a  place  of  great  consequence  for  trade,  being  a  tine  hunting  coun- try along  the  Wabash,  and  too  far  for  the  Indians,  which  reside  hereabouts, to  go  enter  to  the  Illinois,  or  elsewhere,  to  fetch  their  necessaries."  On  tlie 17th,  Croghan  and  his  captors  crossed  the  Wabash,  and  came  up  through  tlic prairies  referred  to  in  the  chapter  on  the  Miamis,  and  on  the  23d  entered  a large  bottom  on  the  Wabash,  within  six  miles  of  Fort  Oui-a-ta-non,  Croghan further  says:  "The  Kickapoos  and  Musquatamies,  whose  warriors  had  taken us  live  nigh  the  fort,  on  the  same  side  of  the  river,  where  they  have  two  vil- lages." Croghan's  Journal  continues  a  daily  account  of  his  movements  up the  Wabash  to  Ft.  Wayne,  down  the  Maumee,  and  up  the  lakes  to  Detroit, and  from  thence  to  Niagara  Falls';  and  gives  a  fair  in:-,ight  into  the  appear- ance and  topography  of  the  extensive  country  he  traversed  as  it  then  appeared. and  illustrates  the  tcrn[)(.-r  of  the  .Indians  who  inhabited  it.  The  original manuscript  diary  was  obtained  by  Mr.  heatherstonhougii,  and  iirst  publisher in  hi-,  "American  Journal  of  Geology",  and  in  December,  1831,  a  reprint  ot 100  copies  was  issued  in  i)aniphlet  form.  It  may  also  be  found  in  the  appen- dix of  Mann  Butler's  valuable  History  of  Kentucky,  in  either  of  the  editions of  1S34  or  1836.
THE    KICKAFOOS.  r''  !^!  ,\-       125
by  the  Sacs  and  Foxes,  and  Pottawatomies,  who  made  a  common cause  of  warfare  upon  the  IlUnois  tribes.  "Tradition  (says  the Pioneer  Historian  of  lUinois,  the  Rev.  John  Tvl.  Peck)  tells  us  of many  a  hard  fought  battle  between  the  original  owners  of  the country  and  these  intruders.  Battle  Ground  Creek  is  well-known on  the  road  from  Kaskaskia  to  Shawneetown,  twenty  five  miles from  the  former  place,  where  the  Kaskaskias  and  their  allies were  dreadfully  slaughtered  by  the  united  forces  of  the  Kicka.- poos  and  Pottawatomies. ■"'''
Within  the  limits  of  the  territory  defined  by  the  treaty  at Edwardsville  in  18 19,  the  Kickapoos,  for  generations  belbre  that time,  had  many  villages.  The  principal  of  these  were  Kickapo- go-oui.  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Wabash,  near  Hudsonville,  Craw- ford Co.,  Ill,  and  known,  in  the  early  days  of  the  Northwest Territory,  as  Musquiton  [^^lascoutine] ;  another  on  both  sides  of the  Vermilion  River,  at  its  confluence  with  the  AV'abash.  This last  village  was  destroyed  by  Maj.  John  F.  Flamtramck,  in  Oct., 1790,  whose  military  forces  moved  up  the  river  from  Vincennes to  create  a  diversion  in  favor  of  Gen.  Harmer,  then  leading  the main  attact  against  the  Miami  town  at  Fort  ^^Xvne  and  other Indian  villages  in  that  vicinity.  Higher  up  the  Vermilion  were other  Kickapoo  towns,  particularly  the  one  some  four  miles  west of  Danville,  and  near  the  mouth  of  the  Middle  Fork.  The remains  of  one  of  the  most  extensive  burial-grounds  in  the Wabash  Valley,  still  attest  the  magnitude  of  this  once  populous Indian  city;  and,  although  the  village  site  has  been  in  cultivation for  over  fifty  years,  every  recurring  year  the  ploughshare  turns  up flint  arrow-points,  stone-axes,  gun-flints,  gun-locks,  knives,  silver brooches,  or  other  mementoes  of  its  former  inhabitants.  These people  were  greatly  attached  to  tlie  country  watered  by  the  Ver- milion and  its  tributaries;  and  Ciov.  Harrison  found  a  difficult task  to  reconcile  them  to  ceding  it  away.  In  lus  letter  to  the secretary  of  war,  of  Dec.  10,  1809,  referring  to  his  efforts  to  in- duce the  Kickapoos  to  part  with  it,  the  governor  says  he  "was extremely  anxious  that  the  extinguishment  of  title  should  extend as  high  up  as  the  Vermilion  River,  but  it  was  objected  to  because
*  "An  f listorical  Sketch  of  the  early  American  settlements  in  Illinois,  from 17S0  to  1800.  Read  before  the  Illinois  State. Fyceiun,  at  its  Anniversary, August  16,  1832.  By  J.  M.  Peck."  Published  in  No.  2  of  Vol.  i,  of  The Western  Monthly  Magazine  for  February,  1833.  Other  accounts  fix  tlie  date of  this  last  great  battle  about  tlie  year  iSoo,  and  ascribe  its  planing  and  exe- cution to  the  great  Pottawatomie  warrior  and  medicine  man  known  as  Wah- bun-ou  We-nc-ne  or  "  The  Jii;.^de7-''\
126  ILLINOIS   AND   INDIANA   INDIANS.  "..:
it  would  include  a  Kickapoo  village.  This  small  tract  of  about twenty  miles  square*  is  one  of  the  most  beautifiil  that  can  be conceived,  and  is,  moreover,  believed  to  contain  a  very  rich  cop- per mine.  I  have  myself  frequently  seen  specimens  of  the  cop- per; one  of  which  I  sent  to  Mr.  Jetferson  in  1802.  The  Indians were  so  extremely  jealous  of  any  search  being  made  for  this mine,  that  traders  were  always  cautioned  not  to  approach  the hills  which  were  supposed  to  contain  the  mine."t
The  Kickapoos  had  other  villages  on  the  Embarras,  some miles  west  of  Charlestown,  and  still  others  about  the  headwaters of  the  Kaskaskia.  During  the  period  when  the  territory  west  of the  Mississippi  belonged  to  Spain,  her  subjects  residing  at  St. Louis  "carried  on  a  considerable  trade  among  the  Indians  east- ward of  the  Mississippi,  particularly  the  Kickapoos  near  the  head- waters of  the  Kaskaskia/" t  Further  northward  they  had  still other  villages,  among  them  one  tov/ard  the  headwaters  of  Sugar Creek,  a  tribiuar}'  of  the  Sangamon  River,  near  the  southwest corner  of  McLean  County.  §  The  Kickapoos  had,  besides,  vil- lages west  of  Logan  sport  and  Lafayette,  in  the  groves  upon  the prairies,  and  finally,  a  great  or  capital  village  near  what  is  well- known  as  '^  Old  Toivn''  timber,  in  West  Township,  McLean  Qo.. III.  These  last  were  especially  obnoxious  to  the  pioneer  settlers of  Kentucky,  because  the  Indians  living  or  finding  a  refuge  in them,  made  frequent  and  exasperating  raids  across  the  Ohio, where  they  would  murder  men  and  women,  and  carry  off  captive children,  to  say  nothing  of  the  lesser  crimes  of  burning  houses and  stealing  horses.  So  annoying  did  these  offences  become, that  several  expeditions  were  sent  out  in  retaliation.     That,  coin-
*  It  extended  up  the  Vermilion  River  a  distance  of  twenty  miles  in  a  direct line  from  its  mouth.
t  The  specimens  referred  to  were  doubtless  "drift  copper",  now  supposed  to have  drifted  in  from  their  native  beds  in  the  neighborhood  of  Lake  Superior. Since  tlie  settlement  of  the  Vermilion  county  by  the  whites,  many  similr.; specimens  have  been  found.  Only  within  the  present  year,  1883,  some  work- men, while  engaged  in  digging  a  cellar  in  Danville,  unearthed,  from  near  ti.e surface  of  the  ground,  a  piece  of  pure  copper,  weighing  eighty-seven  pounds. It  was  secured  by  Dr.  j,  C.  Winslow  of  Danville,  for  Prof.  John  Co'I-tt. state  geologist  of  Indiana,  who  has  deposited  it  in  the  State  Cabinet  at  Inui- anapolis.
X  Sketches  of  Louisiana,  by  Maj.  Amos  Stodard.
§  This  vilL-gc  was  burned  in  the  fall  of  181 2,  by  a  part  of  Gov.  Edwards forces,  while  on  their  march  from  Camp  Russell  to  Peoria  Lake,  Vide  Gov. Reynolds"  My  Own  Times.
!::,':rr-i
THE    KICKAPOOS.  ■         12/
manded  by  Gen.  Chas.  Scott,  in  the  month  of  May,  1791,  de- stroyed the  Kickapoo  to^\n  near  Oui-a-ta-non  [referred  to  in  con- nection with  the  capture  of  Groghan].  In  the  month  of  August  of the  same  year,  a  second  expedition,  lead  by  Gen.  Jas.  Wilkinson, left  Kentucky  on  a  similar  mission.  In  the  instructions  given  by Gov.  St.  Clair  (then  the  executive  head  of  the  military  as  well  as of  the  civil  affairs  of  the  Northwest  Territory)  to  Gen.  Wilkinson, we  fmd  the  following:  "Should  the  success  attend  you  at L'Anguile,"^  which  I  wish  and  hope,  you  may  find  yourself  equal to  the  attacking  ttie  Kickapoo  town  situated  in  the  prairie  not far  from  Sangamoii  River,  which  empties  itself  into  the  Illinois River.  By  information,  that  town  is  not  distant  from  L'Anguile more  than  three  easy  days"  marches.  A  visit  to  that  place  will be  totally  unexpected,  and  most  probably  attended  with  decided good  consequences;  neither  will  it  be  hazardous,  for  the  men,  at this  season,  are  generally  out  hunting  beyond  the  Illinois  country. Should  it  seem  feasible  from  circumstances,  I  recommend  the attempt  in  preference  to  the  towns  higher  up  the  Wabash,  and success  there  would  be  followed  by  great  eclat.''  The  general did  not  reach  the  great  Kickapoo  town.  His  troops,  jaded  by forced  marches,  and  the  effectual  destruction  of  the  Eel  River village,  and  encumbered  with  prisoners,t  "launched  westward through  the  boundless  prairies'',  only  to  become  "environed  on all  sides  with  morasses,  which  forbade  his  advancing".  They were  compelled,  toward  the  end  of  the  day,  to  return.  On  their way  back,  however,  they  struck  the  Kickapoo  town  west  of Lafayette,  and  destroyed  it.
The  people  of  Kentucky  were  not  the  only  sufferers  from depredations  of  this  tribe.  From  their  towns  near  the  Wabash,. the  Kickapoo  war  parties  lurked  upon  the  skirts  of  the  settle- ments on  the  American  Bottom  from  Kaskaskia  to  Cahokia,  bent on  the  murder  or  capture  of  any  unprotected  person  that  fell  in their  way,  excepting  alone  those  of  French  blood,  who,  with  their property,  were,  with  rare  exceptions,  exempt  from  molestation. So  strong  was  the  regard  of  the  Kickapoos,  in  common  with  all other  Algoncjuin  tribes,  for  the  Frenchm.an.
*  The  Eel  River  town  on  Eel  River,  .some  six  miles  above  Logansport, Ind. ,  and  which  uas  to  be  attacked.
+  His  prisoners  consisted  mostly  of  v/omen  and  children,  and  numbered thirty-four  in  all.  His  instructions,  like  those  issued  to  Gen.  Scott,  required him  to  take  all  women  and  children  they  could,  and  turn  them  over  to  the officer  in  command  at  Ft.  Washinr^on  (now  Cincinnati),  in  the  hope  that  by thus  paying,'  the  Indians  back  in  kind,  they  would  cease  their  cruel  forays upon  helpless  and  uncjffending  non-combatants.
\'-i
I2S  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
■Sir.  Peck's  historical  sketch  of  the  early  American  settlements in  Illinois,  before  quoted,  is  largely  taken  up  with  narrations  of the  killing  and  capture  of  white  settlers  in  the  ncighborlioods named,  and  the  destruction  or  the  plunder  of  their  property. "We  summarize  a  few  paragraphs  from  his  address,  by  way  of illustration :
"The  Kickapoos  v\'ere  numerous  and  warlike,  and  had  their principal  towns  on  the  Illinois  and  the  Vermilion  of  the  Wabash. They  were  the  most  formidable  and  dangerous  neighbors  to  the whites,  and,  for  a  number  of  years,  kept  the  settlements  [on  the American  Bottom]  in  continual  alarm."'  The  address  then  takes up  a  narration  of  yearly  events  from  1783  to  1795,  showing  the sufferings  and  dangers  to  which  the  white  ]jopulation  Avas  ex- posed on  account  of  Indian  depredations,  inflicted  in  the  main by  Kickapoos.
Among  the  most  notable  captures  was  that  of  Wm.  Biggs,  in 1788.  On  the  morning  of  March  28  of  that  year,  while  he,  in company  with  young  John  Yallis,  was  going  from  Bellefountaine to  Kahokia,  they  were  surprised  by  a  war  party  of  sixteen  Kicka- poo  Indians.  Vallis  was  wounded  in  the  thigh,  and,  being mounted  on  a  fine  horse,  was  soon  beyond  reach  of  the  flying balls,  and  made  his  escape  only  to  die,  however,  of  his  wounds. Four  bullets  were  shot  into  Biggs'  horse;  and  the  animal  became so  frantic  with  pain,  and  frightened,  more  than  all,  with  the  yells of  the  savages,  that  it  became  unmanageable;  Biggs'  ''gun  was thrown  from  his  shoulder,  and  twisted  out  of  his  hands'";  in  tr\- ing  to  recover  his  gun,  and  being  incumbered  "with  a  large bag  of  beaver  fur,  which  prevented  him  from  recovering  his saddle,  which  had  neither  'girth  or  crupper",  it  turned  and  fell off  of  the  horse,  and  Biggs  'fell  with  it'."  The  rider  held  on  to the  horse's  mane,  and  was  soon  upon  his  feet,  making  inettectual attempts  to  remount,  as  his  terrified  horse  dragged  him  along  for some  "twenty  or  thirty  yards",  when  his  "hold  broke,  and  he  fell on  his  hands  and  knees,  and  stumbled  along  four  or  five  steps before  he  could  recover  himself"  "By  the  time  I  got  fairly  oii my  feet",  continues  the  narrator,  "the  Indians  were  about  eight or  ten  yards  off  me.  I  saw  there  was  no  other  way  to  make  my escape  but  by  fast  running,  and  I  was  determined  to  try  it,  and had  but  little  hopes  at  first  of  being  able  to  escape,  I  ran  about one  hundred  yards  before  I  looked  back — I  thought  almost  every step  I  could  feel  the  scalping-knife  cutting  my  scalp  off.  I  fouijd that  I  was  gaining  ground  on  them,  I  felt  encouraged,  and  ran about  three  hundred  yards  further,  and  looking  back,  saw  that  1 had   gained  about   one   hundred    yards,   and   considered   myself
THE    KICKAPOOS.  1 29
quite  out  of  danger.""  Biggs'  hopes,  however,  were  not  well grounded.  The  morning  was  cold,  and  before  setting  out  from home  on  his  journey,  he  had  clothed  liimself  in  a  heavy  irnder- coat,  over  which  was  a  greatcoat,  securely  tied  about  the  waist with  a  large,  well-worn  silk  handkerchief,  tied,  in  the  hurry  of  the moment,  in  a  double  hard  knot.  Anticipating  a  long  race,  he endeavored  to  divest  himself  of  all  surplus  garments;  the  knotted handkerchief  would  not  untie;  he  pulled  his  arms  out  of  the sleeves  of  his  greatcoat,  which,  traiUng  on  the  ground,  would "wrap  around  his  legs. and  throw  him  down"",  so  that  he  "made no  headway  at  running"'.  His  pursuers,  seeing  his  predicament. renewed  the  chase  wuth  more  vigor,  and  soon  overtook  and  secured him.  His  captor,  says  Biggs,  "took  the  handle  of  his  tomahawk, and  rubbed  it  on  my  shoulder  and  down  my  arm,  which  was  a token  that  he  would  not  kill  me,  and  that  I  was  his  prisoner.'"
At  the  risk  of  "traveling  further  out  of  the  record"  of  the  gen- eral scope  of  this  chapter,  we  quote  a  few  more  extracts  from  Mr. Biggs'  Narrative;  as  they  admirably  illustrate  some  of  the  caprices and  traits  of  Indian  character.  At  the  hrst  evening's  encamp- ment, and  the  Indians  having  finished  tlieir  eating,  one  of  them sat,  "with  his  back  against  a  tree,  with  his  knife  between  his  legs. I,  says  Biggs,  was  sitting  facing  him  with  my  feet  nearly  touching his.  He  began  to  inquire  of  me  what  nation  I  belonged  to.  i was  determined  to  pretend  that  I  was  ignorant  and  could  not understand  him.  I  did  not  wish  them  to  know  that  I  could speak  some  Indian  languages,  and  understood  them  better  than  I could  speak.  He  first  asked  me,  in  Indian,  if  I  was  Mat-to-cush (that  is,  in  Indian,  a  Frenchman);  I  told  him  no.  He  then asked  me  if  I  was  a  Sag-e-nash  (an  iuiglishman);  I  told  him  no. He  again  asked  if  I  was  a  She-mol-sca  (that  is,  a  long  knife  or Virginian);  I  told  him  no.  He  then  asked  me  if  1  was  a  Bos- tonely'"  (that  is  an  American);  I  told  him  no.  About  a  minute afterward,  he  asked  me  the  same  questions  over  again,  and  I answered  him  yes.'     He  then  spoke  Emglish,  and  catched  up  his
knife,  and  said,  'You  are  one  d —  son  of  a  b   ".      I  really
thought  he  intended  stabbing  me  with  his  knife.  I  knew  it  would not  do  to  show  cowardice.  1,  being  pretty  well  acquainted  with their  manners  and  ways,  jumped  up  on  my  feet,  and  spoke  in Indian,  and  said,  ' Man-e-t-wa^  Kieiiuie-pa-i^'ay'  (in  English  it  is, 'Xo!   I  am  very  good");   and  clapped  my  hands  on  my  breast
*  Mr.  Biggs'  inteqiretation  is  a  little  too  broad.  Boston-e-Iywx^  an  epithet obtained  by  the  Indians  from  the  Canadian  I'rench,  who  applied  it  to  the  New I'^n'danders  or  Vankies.
130  ILLINOIS   AXD    INDIANA    INDIANS.  ,  ,
when  I  spoke,  and  looked  very  bold.  The  other  Indians  all  set up  such  a  ha  1  ha  1  and  laughter,  that  it  made  him  look  very  fool- ish, and  he  sat  still  and  became  quite  sulky."
The  Kickapoos  took  their  prisoner  across  the  prairies  of  Illi- nois, reaching  their  village  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Wabash,  near old  Fort  Weaoatanon  (which,  at  the  time  of  this  occurrence,  was merely  a  trading-post),  on  the  tenth  day  of  his  capture.  Remain- ing several  weeks  with  the  Kickapoos  and  at  the  trading-post, Mr.  Biggs  effected  his  relea.se  through  the  kindly  interference  of the  traders  at  the  latter  place,  prominent  -among  whom  was  an Englishman,  Mr.  ^IcCauslin,  and  ^Ir.  Bazedone,  a  Spaniard,  witli whom  Biggs  ''had  an  acquaintance  in  the  Ilhnois  country"'",  and who  paid  the  Indians  in  trade  an  equivalent  of  $260  for  his  ran- sorae,  for  which  sum  Biggs  ''gave  his  note,  payable  in  the  Illinois country."'  Later,  he  passed  down  the  Wabash  and  the  Ohio, and  up  the  Mississippi,  in  a  pirogue  or  large  canoe,  and  safely reached  his  family.
Mr.  Biggs  was  greatly  liked  by  his  captors  and  their  kinsmen, who  complimented  for  his  braver)-,  his  fleetness  of  foot,  his shapely  limbs,  long  and  beautiful  hair,  and  handsome  physi'jue. They  adopted  him  into  their  tribe,  giving  him  the  name  of  Moh- cos-se-a,  after  the  name  of  a  chief  who  had  been  killed  by  the whites  the  year  before.  After  which  he  "was  to  be  considered one  of  that  Kickapoo  family,  in  place  of  their  [slain]  father."  He was  also  offered,  in  marriage,  a  handsome  Indian  girl,  a  relation of  the  same  family,  who,  encouraged  by  her  i:)arents,  exhausted her  arts,  in  a  manner  of  becoming  modesty,  to  win  his  consent; Mr.  Biggs  protesting  that  he  was  already  a  married  man,  the father  of  three  children,  whose  mother  was  his  wife,  and  that  it was  against  the  laws  of  lu's  country  for  a  man  to  have  more  than one  wife  at  a  tiiue.  This  Indian  girl  had  prepared  his  first  regu- lar meal  after  his  arrival  at  the  Wabash.  Says  Biggs,  "it  was hominy,  beat  in  a  mortar,  as  v/hite  as  snow,  and  handsome  as  I ever  saw,  and  very  well  cooked.  She  fried  some  dried  meat, pounded  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  in  oil,  and  sprinkled  it  with  sugar. She  prepared  a  very  good  bed  for  me,  with  bear-skins  and  blank- ets." She  brought  him  "hot  water  in  a  tin  cup,  and  shaving soap,  and  more  clean  water  in  a  basin"',  and  a  cloth  to  wipe  his hands  and  face  after  the  pr-o<:ess  of  shaving  was  done  with. '•She  then  told  me  to  sit  down  on  a  bench.  I  did  so.  She  got two  very  good  combs — a  coarse  and  a  fine  one.  It  v.as  then the  fashion  to  wear  long  hair.  Mine  vvas  very  long  anrl  tiiick, and  nuich  tangled  and  matted — 1  traveled  witiiout  any  hat  or anything  else  on  my  head,  and  that  was  the  tenth  day  it  had  not
I
THE    KICKAFOOS.  131
been  combed.  She  combed  out  my  hair  very  tenderly,  and  then took  the  fine  one  and  combed  and  looked  my  head  nearly  one hour.  She  went  to  a  trunk  and  got  a  ribbon,  and  greased  my hair  very  nicely.  The  old  chief  [father  of  the  girl,  as  we  learn elsewhere]  gave  me  a  fme  regimental  blue  cloth  coat,  faced  with yellow  bufi'  cloth;  the  son-in-law  gave  me  a  very  good  beaver jNIackinaw  hat.  These  they  had  taken  from  some  officers  they had  killed.  Then  the  widow  squav.-  took  me  into  her  cabin  and gave  me  a  new  ruffled  shirt  and  a  very  good  blanket."'  Ail  these he  put  on,  and,  at  the  request  of  the  donors,  he  walked  the  floor to  their  delight.  71ie  girl  followed  him  to  the  abode  of  the widowed  and  orphaned  family  to  whom  he  had  been  given,  and which  was  in  another  neighborhood,  where  she  took  her  place  at his  cabin  door,  silently  waiting,  in  the  hope  he  would  relent  and invite  her  in.  "She  stood  by  my  door  for  sometime  after  dark — I did  not  know  when  she  went  away.  She  stayed  two  days  and three  nights  before  she  returned  home.  I  never  spoke  to  her while  she  was  there.  She  was  a  very  handsome  girl,  al)out  18 years  of  age,  a  beautiful  full  figure,  and  handsomely  featured,  and very  white  for  a  squaw.  She  was  almost  as  white  as  dark  com- plexioned  women  generally  are ;  and  her  father  and  mother  were very  white  skinned  Indians. "■''
To  resume.  In  the  desperate  plans  of  Tecumthe,  tlie  Kicka- poos  took  an  active  part.  This  tribe  caught  the  infection  at  an early  day  of  those  troubles;  and  in  1806,  Ciov.  Harrison  sent Capt.  Wm.  Prince  to  the  Vermilion  towns  with  a  speech  addressed to  all  the  warriors  and  chiefs  of  the  Kickapoo  tribe;  giving  Capt. Prince  further  instructions  to  proceed  to  the  villages  of  the  prai-
*  ]\Ir.  Biggs  had  been  one  of  Gen.  Clark's  soldiers  in  the  conquest  of  the Illinois,  and  liking  the  country,  early  after  the  close  of  the  Revolutionary War,  he  returned  and  settled  at  the  Bellefountaine,  the  name  of  an  early  set- tlement in  Monroe  Co.,  111.,  ten  miles  north  of  Kaskaskia.  He  held  several territorial  and  state  o.Olces,  and  filled  them  with  honor  and  ability.  In  1826, shortly  before  his  death,  he  jniblished  "a  narrative"  of  his  capture  by  and  his experience  while  with  the  Kickapoos.  It  is  a  pamphlet-  of  twenty-three pages,  printed  with  p)oor  type  on  very  common  paper.  But  few  copies  were issued,  and  scarcely  any  of  these  seem  to  have  been  preserved.  It  was  only after  a  search  of  several  years  that  the  writer  was  so  fortunate  as  to  get  sight of  one.  Gov.  Reynolds,  in  his  Pioneer  History  of  Illinois,  gives  a  fair  sketch of  Mr.  Biggs.  That  given  in  the  text  is  condensed  or  quoted  directly  from the  "Narrative",  and  differs  from  J.  M.  I'eck's,  as  it  makes  no  mention, whatever,  of  the  Ogle  Brothers  being  in  company  with  Biggs  and  Vallis  at  the time  of  the  capture.
^  I
I
132  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
rie  bands,  if,  after  having  delivered  the  speech  at  the  A^ermihon towns,  he  discovered  there  would  be  no  danger  to  himself  in  pro- ceeding beyond.  The  speech,  which  was  full  of  good  words  and precautionary  advice,  had  little  effect;  and  ''shortly  after  the mission  of  Capt.  Prince,  the  Prophet  found  means  to  bring  the whole  of  the  Kickapoos  entirely  under  his  influence."'  \^Vidc Memoirs  of  Gen.  Harrison.  We  produce  extracts  of  Gov.  Har- rison's "talk",  referred  to,  to  show  the  style  of  such  addresses. Gen.  Harrison,  being  an  adept  in  this  kind  of  Hterature,  could suit  such  papers  to  the  occasion,  and  draft  them  within  the  range and  to  the  understanding  of  the  people  for  whom  they  Avere  in- tended, better,  perha'ps.  than  any  other  agent  tlie  Government ever  ha'd  in  the  troublesome  field  of  Indian  diplomacy.  "Wm.  H. Harrison,  Gov.,  etc.,  Supt.  of  Indian  affairs,  etc.,  etc.,  to  his  chil- dren, the  chiefs  and  warriors  of  the  Kickapoo  tribe."'  My  chil- dren :  I  lately  sent  you  a  message  by  one  of  3'our  warriors,  but I  have  not  yet  received  an  answer.  The  head  chief  of  the  We-as has,  however,  been  with  me,  and  has  assured  me  that  you  still keep  hold  of  the  chain  of  friendship,  which  has  bound  you  to your  father  since  the  treaty  made  with  Gen.  AVayne  [referring  to the  Treaty  of  Greenville,  of  1795].
"My  children,  this  information  has  given  me  great  pleasure, because  I  had  heard  tliat  you  had  suftered  bad  thoughts  to  get possession  of  your  minds.
"My  children,  what  is  it  you  wisii  for?  Have  I  not  often  told you  that  you  should  inform  me  of  all  your  grievances,  and  that you  should  never  appl}'  to  your  father  in  vain.
"My  children:  Be  wise,  do  not  follow  the  advise  of  those  who would  lead  you  to  destruction;  what  is  it  they  would  persuade you  to? — to  make  war  upon  your  tathers,  tlie  wSeventeen  ]'"ires? [The  United  States,  tlien  se\'enteen  in  number.] — What  injury has  your  father  done  you? — If  he  has  done  any,  why  do  you  not complain  to  him  and  ask  redress? — \\'ill  he  turn  a  deaf  ear  to your  com])laints?  He  has  always  listened  to  you,  and  will  listen to  you  still;  you  will  certainly  not  raise  your  arm  against  him.
"My  chiildren,  you  have  a  number  of  young  warriors,  but  wlieu comjjared  to  the  warriors  of  the  United  States,  you  know  the)' are  but  as  a  handful.  My  children,  can  you  count  tlie  leaves on  the  trees,  or  the  grains  of  saiid  in  the  rivt-r  banks?  So  nunier- ous  are  the  warriors  of  the  Seventeen  Fires.
"My  children,  it  would  grieve  your  father  to  let  loose  his  war- riors upon  his  red  children;  nor  will  he  do  it,  unless  you  comiicli him;  he  had  rather  that  they  would  stay  at  home  and  make  corn for  tlieir  women  and  children;  but  he  is  not  afraid  to  make  war; he  knows  that  they  are  brave.
THE  KiCKAroos.       "  133
''My  children,  he  has  men  armed  with  all  kinds  of  weapons; those  wl'io  Hve  on  the  big  waters  [the  sea  coast]  and  in  the  big towns,  understand  the  use  of  muskets  and  bayonets  [of  which last  the  Indians  had  become  very  much  afraid  since  their  disas- trous encounter  with  Gen.  A\'ayne  in  the  engagement  on  the Maumee,  in  1794,  where  the  bayonet  was  used  with  terrible effect],  and  those  who  li\-e  on  this  side  the  mountains  [the  .Vlle- ghanies]  use  the  same  arms  that  you  do  [long  range  rides].
''My  children:  The  Great  Spirit  has  taught  your  fathers  to make  all  the  arms  and  ammunition  which  they  use;  but  you  do not  understand  this  art;  if  you  should  go  to  war  with  your  fathers, who  would  supply  you  with  those  things?  The  British  can  not ; we  have  driven  them  lieyond  the  lakes,  and  they  can  not  send  a trader  to  you  without  our  permission.
'•]My  children,  open  your  eyes  to  your  true  interest;  your  fither wishes  you  to  be  happ}-.  If  you  wish  to  ha\'e  your  minds  set  at ease,  come  and  speak  to  him.  ^ly  children,  the  young  man [Capt.  Prince]  who  carries  this  is  my  friend,  and  he  will  speak  to you  in  my  name;  listen  to  him  as  if  I  were  to  address  you,  and treat  him  with  kindness  and  hospitality."
The  Kickapoos  fought  in  great  numbers  and  with  frenzied courage  at  the  battle  of  Tippecanoe.  They  early  sided  with  the British  in  the  war  that  was  declared  between  that  power  and  the United  States  the  following  June;  and  sent  out  many  v/ar  parties, that  kept  the  settlements  in  Indiana  and  Jllinois  in  constant peril;  while  other  warriors  of  their  tribe  participated  in  almost every  battle  fought  during  this  war  along  the  western  frontier.
As  a  military  ];eople,  the  Kickapoos  were  inferior  to  the  ?*Iia- mis,  Delawares,  and  Shawnees,  in  movements  requiring  large bodies  of  men;  but  they  were  preeminent  in  predatory  warfare. Small  parties,  consisting  of  from  five  to  twenty  or  more,  were  the usual  number  com])rising  their  war  parties.  These  would  push out  hundreds  of  miles  from  their  villages,  and  swoop  down  upon a  feeble  settlement,  or  an  isolated  pioneer  cabin,  and  burn  the property,  kill  the  cattle,  steal  the  horses,  capture  the  women  and children,  and  be  off  again  before  an  alarm  could  be  given.
AVhile  the  Tottawatomies  and  other  tribes,  in  alliance  with  the British,  laid  siege  to  ¥t.  AVayne,  the  Kickapoos,  assisted  by  the Winnebagoes,   were   assigned   to   t-he   capture   of   Ft.  Harrison.''
*  Finished  Oct.  28,  iSii,  and  situated  on  the  ea<.i  bank  of  the  Waba-h, about  two  iniles  above  the  lower  Wea  'J  ov.n  of  "  Wa-pvi-ta-no",  and  a  mile or  more  above  the  present  City  of  Terre  Haute,  fnd.  It  was  erected  ]>y  the forces  under  Gov.  Harrison,  %\!jilc  on  their  way  from  Vincennes  to  the  Proph-
134  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.  '    :
They  nearly  succeeded,  and  would  have  taken  it  but  for  the  most- heroic  and  determined  defence,  tliat  gave  its  commander,  Capt. Zachary  Taylor,  a  national  renown.
The  plan  of  the  attack  was  matured  by  the  Kickapoo  war  chief, Pa-koi-shee-can,-''  Avho,  in  person,  undertook  the  execution  of  the most  difficult  and  dangerous  part  of  it.  First  tire  Indians  loi- tered about  the  fort,  having  a  few  of  their  women  and  children with  them,  to  induce  a  belief  that  their  presence  was  friendly, while  the  main  body  of  warriors  were  secreted  at  a  distance  wait- ing for  favorable  developments.  Pretending  they  were  in  want of  provisions,  the  men  and  women  were  allowed  to  approach near  the  fort,  and  were  thus  given  opportunity  to  inspect  the  fort and  its  defences.  A  dark  night,  giving  the  appearance  of  rain, favored  the  plan  whicii  was  at  once  executed.  The  warriors  were brought  to  the  front,  and  women  and  children  sent  to  tlie  rear. Pa-koi-shee-can,  with  a  large  butcher  knife  in  each  hand,  threw himself  at  length  upon  the  ground.  He  drove  a  knife,  held  in one  hand,  into  the  ground,  and  drew  his  body  up  against  it; then  reached  forward  with  the  knife  in  the  other  hand,  and  driv- ing that  into  the  ground,  again  drew  himself  along.  In  this  v\ay, like  a  snake  in  the  grass,  he  approached  the  lower  block-house. He  heard  the  sentinels  on  their  rounds  on  the  inside  of  the  pali- sade. As  the  guards  advanced  toward  that  part  of  the  works where  the  lower  block-house  was  situated,  Pa-koi-shee-can  would lie  still;  and  when  the  guards  made  the  turn  and  moved  in  the opposite  direction,  he  again  crawled  nearer.  In  this  way  the crafty  savage  gained  the  very  walls  of  the  block-house.  There was  a  crack  between  the  logs  of  the  block-house,+  and  through this  opening  the  Kickapoo  placed  a  quantity  of  dry  grass,  bits  of wood,  and  other  combustibles,  brought  for  the  purpose  in  a blanket,  tied  pouch  fashion  upon  his  back.  While  the  prepara- tion for  this  incendiarism  was  in  progress,  the  sentinels,  in  their
et's  Town,  during  the  memorable  Tippecanoe  campaign;  and,  by  unanimous request  of  all  the  officers,  christened  after  the  name  of  their  commander.  It was  enclosed  with  palisades,  and  officers  and  soldiers  barracks,  and  defended at  two  angles  with  two  block-hou.^es,  similar  to  that  seen  in  illustrations  of old  Forts  Wayne  and  Dearborn.
*  The  Bluckhury  FUn.:cr,  abrevia^trd  by  the  French  to  La  Farine  [The Flower],  the  name  by  which  he  \vas  generally  known  among  the  white  people.
t  Gen.  Harrison  also  menlions  this  fact,  and  adds  that  this  building  was used  for  the  storage  of  whisky  and  salt;  that  the  cattle  had  licked  the  chink- ing out  to  get  at  the  salt,  and  that  the  opening  between  the  logs  was  made  in this  way.
THE    KICKAPOOS.  I  35
rounds  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  block-house,  passed  within  a few  feet  of  the  place  where  the  hre  was  about  to  be  lighted.  All being  in  readiness,  and  the  sentinels  at  xht  further  side  of  the enclosure,  Pii-koi-shee-can  struck  a  fire  with  his  flint,  and  thrust it  within,  and  threw  his  blanket  quickly  over  the  opening,  to  pre- vent the  blaze  from  flashing  outside,  alarming  the  garrison  before the  building  was  well  on  fire.  A\'hen  assured  that  the  fire  was well  under  way,  he  fell  back  and  gave  the  signal,  when  the  attack was  immediately  begun  by  the  Indians  at  the  opposite  extremity of  the  fort  with  great  fury.  The  lower  block-house  burned  down in  spite  of  all  the  efforts  of  the  garrison  to  prevent  it;  and,  for  a while,  the  Indians  were  exultant,  feeling  assured  of  a  complete victory.  Capt.  Taylor  constructed  a  barricade  with  material  taken from  another  building;  and,  by  the  time  the  block-house  had consumed,  the  Indians,  to  their  great  disappointment,  discovered a  new  line  of  defence,  closing  the  breach  through  which  they  had expected  to  effect  an  entrance.  [The  Indian  account  of  the attack  on  Ft.  Harrison,  as  above  given,  was  first  published  in 1879,  ^^  ths  writer's  "Historic  Notes",  etc.  It  is  in  harmony with  offlcial  reports,  except  that  the  latter,  tor  want  of  information on  the  part  of  those  who  wrote  them,  contain  nothing  as  to  plans of  the  Indians,  nor  how  the  block-house  was  fired.  The  account given  in  the  text  was  narrated  to  the  writer  by  Mrs.  Mary  A. Baptiste,  as  it  was  told  to  her  by  Pa-koi-shee-can  himself.  This lady,  with  Christmas  Dagney,  her  first  husband,  were  at  Ft.  Har- rison in  182 1,  where  the  latter  was  assisting  in  the  disbursement of  annuities  to  the  Indians  then  assembled  there  to  receive  them. The  business  and  spree  that  followed,  occupied  two  or  three  days. Pa-koi-shee-can  was  present  with  some  of  his  people,  to  receive their  share  of  the  annuities;  and  the  old  chief,  havmg  leisure. edified  ^Ir.  Dagney  and  his  wife  with  a  minute  account  of  his attempt  to  take  the  fort,  pointing  out  the  positions  and  move- ments of  himself  and  his  warriors.  As  he  related  the  story,  he warmed  up,  and  indulged  in  a  great  deal  of  pantomime,  whicli gave  force  to,  as  it  heightened  the  effect  of,  the  narration.  The l)arLiculars  are  given  substantially  as  Mrs.  Baptiste  rejjeated  then! to  tlie  writer.  vShe  had  never  read  an  account  of  the  engagement.] We  find  no  instance  in  which  the  Kickapoos  were  allied  \Mth either  the  French  or  tlie  Briti^li,  in  anv  of  the  intrigues  or  wars for  the  control  of  the  fiir  trade,  or  the  acquisitign  of  disputed territory,  in  the  Northwest.  They  di<i  not  mix  or  mingle  theh" blood  with  I'Vench  or  other  white  })eo[jle;  and,  as  compared  in this  regard  with  other  tribes,  in  the  voluminous  treaties  witii  tlie Federal  Government,  there  is  a  singular  absence  of  land  reserva
136  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
tions  in  favor  of  half-breed  Kickapoos.  Unlike,  tlie  Illinois,  the Miamis,  and  other  tribes  living  upon  the  lines  of  the  early  com- merce of  the  country,  or  whose  villages  were  marts  of  the  fur trade,  the  Kickapoos  kept  at  a  distance,  and  escaped  the  demor- alization which  this  trade,  and  a  contact  with  its  unscriipulou?^ emissaries,  inflicted  upon  the  tribes  coming  within  their  baneful influence.'-'  As  compared  with  other  Indians,  the  Kickapoos were  industrious,  intelligent,  and  cleanly  in  their  habits,  and  were better  armed  and  clothed.  As  a  rule,  the  men  were  tall,  sinewy, and  active:  the  women  litlie.  and  many  of  them  by  no  means lacking  in  beauty.t  Their  dialect  is  soft  and  liquid  when  con- trasted with  rough,  guttural  language  of  the  Pottawatoraies.
With  the  close  of  the  war  of  181 2,  the  Kickapoos  ceased  their hostilities  toward  the  whites,  and  a  few  years  later,  disposed  of the  residue  of  their  lands  in  Illinois  and  Indiana,  and,  with  the exception  of  a  few  bands,  emigrated  west  of  the  Mississippi. Gov.  Reynolds  says  of  them,  "They  disliked  the  United  States so  much,  that  they  decided  when  they  left  Illinois,  that  they would  not  reside  within  the  limits  of  our  Government,  but  would settle  in  Texas. *"t  A  large  body  of  them  did  go  to  Texas;  and when  the  Lone  Star  Republic  became  a  member  of  the  Federal Union,  these  Kickapoos  retired  to  New  Mexico;  and  later,  some of  them  went  even  to  old  Mexico.  Here,  on  these  frontier  bor- ders, these  wild  bands  have,  for  years,  maintained  the  reputation of  their  sires,  and  enterprising  race.  Col.  R.  B.  Marcy,  in  1854, found  one  of  their  bands  upon  the  Chocktaw  reservation,  near the  Witchita  River.  He  says  of  them,  "They,  like  the  Dela- wares  and  Shawnees,  are  well  armed  with  good  riiles,  in  the  use of  which  they  arc  very  expert,  and  there  are  no  better  hunters or  warriors  upon  the  borders.  They  hunt  together  on  horseback, and  after  a  party  of  them  have  passed  through  a  section  of  coun- try, it  is  seldom  that  any  game  is  left  in  their  trace.  They  are intelligent,  active,  and  brave,  and  frequently  visit  and  traffic  with
*  Says  Maj.  Stocklard,  in  his  Sketches  of  Louisiana,  "There  is  a  stvikini; difference  between  those  Indians  who  live  in  the  neigiiborhood  of  the  whites and  th)se  who  re>icic  at  a  distance  from  them.  The  former,  especially  if accustomed  to  a  X^avj,  intercourse,  liave  wonderfully  degenerated.  They  liave gradually  imbibed  all  the  vices  of  theLivhites,  and  f  ngotten  their  own  virtues. They  are  drunkards  and  thieves,  and  act  on  all  occasions  with  the  most  con- humate  duplicity."  The  observations  of  ALaj.  Stoddard  are  corroborated  by Gov.  Harrison,  Jud:;e  Jacob  Burnett.,  and  other  eminent  men,  speaking  from their  own  experience.
t  Gov.  Rcync/ids'  I'ioneer  History  of  Illinois.
THE    KICKAPOOS.  13/
the  prairie  Indians,  and  have  no  fear  of  meeting  those  people  in battle,  providing  the  odds  are  not  more  than  six  to  one  against them.'"*
The  Kickapoos  of  the  A^ermilion,  comprising  the  bands  of ]\Iac-ca-naw,  or  ]Mas]i-e-na\v  {TJie  Elk-Honi).  Ka-an-a-kuck,  an.d Pa-koi-shee-can,  were  the  last  to  emigrate.  They  lingered  in Illinois  upon  the  waters  of  the  Embarrass,  the  Vermilion,  and its  northwest  tributaries,  until  1S32  and  1833;  when  they  joined a  body  of  their  people  upon  a  reservation  set  apart  for  their  use west  of  Fort  Leavenvrorth,  and  within  the  limits  of  Brown  and Jackson  Counties,  Kansas,  where  the  survivors  and  the  descen- dants of  those  who  have  died  now  reside  ui)on  their  farms. Their  good  conduct,  comfortable  homes,  and  well  -  cultivated field.s,  attest  their  steady  progress  in  the  ways  of  civilized  life. The  wild  bands  have  always  been  troublesome  along  the  south- western borders;  every  now  and  then  their  depredations  form the  subject  of  some  item  of  current  newspaper  notices.  P'or years  the  Government  failed  in  its  efforts  to  induce  these  bands to  remove  to  some  place  within  the  Indian  Territory,  where  they might  be  restrained  from  annoying  the  border  settlements  of  1  exas and  New  Mexico.  Some  years  ago,  a  part  of  the  semi-civilized Kickapoos  in  Kansas,  preferring  their  old,  wild  life,  left  their reservations,  and  joined  the  bands  to  the  Southwest.  After  years' wanderings  in  quest  of  plunder,  they  were  persuaded  to  return, and  in  1875,  settled  in  the  Indian  Territory,  and  sup])lied  with the  necessary  implements  and  provisions,  to  enable  them  to  go to  work  and  earn  an  honest  living.  In  this  effort  toward  reform, they  are  now  making  commendable  progress.'!"  In  1875,  ^^^*^ civilized  Kickapoos  in  the  Kansas  Agency  numbered  385;  while the  wild  or  iVIexican  band  numbered  420,  as  appears  from  tlie official  report  on  Indian  affairs  for  that  year.  Their  numbers were  never  great,  as  compared  with  the  ^liamis.  or  Pottawato- mies;  however,  they  made  up  for  this  deficiency  by  the  energy of  their  movements.  In  language,  manners,  and  customs,  the Kickapoos  bear  a  very  close  resemblance  to  the  Sac  and  Fox Indians,  whose  allies  they  generally  were,  and  with  whom  they have,  by  some  vvTiters,  been  conTounded.:}:     ,
*  Marcy's  "Thirty  Years  of  Army  Life  on  the  Korder. " t  Report  of  Cominrs.  on  Indian  Affairs.
*  Corroborative  of  tliis,  Geo.  Callin,  in  his  admirable  work  on  the  North American  Indians,  says,  "The  Kickapoos  had  lonc^  lived  in  alliance  with Sacs  and  Foxes,  and  their  languacje  was  so  similar,  that  the  two  seemed  to  be almost  one  family."  \)x.  Jediah  Morse^  .\lt)ert  Gallatin,  and  other  American authorities  could  be  cited  to  the  same  effect,  were  it  at  all  necessary.
nS  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
THE   WINNEBAGOS.
In  ''The  Jesuit  Relations"',  for  tlie  years  1653  to  1670,  inclu- sive, this  tribe  are  alluded  to  luider  various  names,  as  Ouirabe- gouc,  Ouimpegouec,  and  Ouinibegoutz — the  French  "Ou"  being nearly  synonymous  in  the  sound  of  its  pronunciation  with  the English  letter  W,— and  was  a  name  given  them  by  the  Algon- quins,  wit'i  whom  the  meaning  was  Fetid^  translated  by  the  French as  Puants.  The  Algonquin  tribes  called  the  Winnebagoes,  say the  missionary  fathers,  by  this  name  because  the  latter  came  from the  westward  ocean,  or  salt  water,  which  the  Indians  designated as  the  "Fetid  AVater  "."'•'  The  Winnebagoes  called  themselves Hochungara  [0-chun-ga-ra],  or  Ochungarand,  which  is  to  say, on  the  authority  of  Dr.  Schoolcraft,  "the  trout  nation,  or  lioroji [fish  eaters]."  They  were  of  the  Dacota,  or  Sioux  stock,  to whose  language  their  own  assimilated  as  nearly  as  it  differed radically  from  that  of  their  Algonquin  neighbors.  Their  incur- sion into  the  ancient  territory  of  the  Illinois  was  strenuously opposed  by  the  latter;  and  the  disputed  boundary  line  between the  two  shifted  north  or  south,  as  the  fortune  of  war  favored  tlie one  or  the  other.  The  final  chances,  however,  were  ^^ith  the Illinois,  whose  greater  numbers  and  equal  bravery  were  more than  a  match  for  their  adversaries,  who,  for  the  most  part,  v/ere driven  well  back  within  the  present  limits  of  AV^isconsin,  and where,  in  more  modern  times,  they  have  been  regarded  as 'a  tribe
*  The  Winnebagoes  were  first  met  with  V)y  the  Jesuit  fathers,  near  the moutli  of  I'ox  River — originally  called  the  Kan-kan-lin — at  the  head  of  Green Bay,  Wis.  Their  presence  here  gave  to  the  waters  of  Greeii  Bay  the  first name,  by  which  it  was  designated  in  the  Jesuit  Kelations,  and  the  early  maps, ^''  Lac-(ies-Fuants^\  and  "Z,?  Daye  ties  Fiiants^K  As  early  as  1647  and  164S, it  is  referred  to  in  "The  Relations"  as  follows:  A  peninsula,  or  strip  of  land, quite  small,  seperates  this  Superior  Lake  [referring  to  Lake  Superior]  from another  third  lake,  called  by  us  UJie  lake  of  the  Puanfs\  which  also  discharges itself  into  our  fresh  water  sea,  about-  ten  leagues  more  toward  the  west  than the  Sault," — /.  e.,  the  Sault  de  Ste.  Marie,  connecting  Lake  Superior  with Lake  Huron.  "On  its  stiores",  continues  this  "Relation'",  "dwell  a  ditTerent people,  of  an  unknown  language;  that  is  to  say,  a  language  that  ii'.  neither Algonquin  nor  Huron.  These  people  are  called  Puants  [stinkards],  not  on account  of  any  unpleasant  odor  that  is  peculiar  to  them,  but  because  they  say they  carne  from  the  shores  of  a  sea  far  distant  toward  the  West,  the  waters  of which  being  salt,  they  call  themselves  *the  [)eople  of  the  sea'."
I
THE    VvINNEBAGOES.  -  1 39
of  that  State.  Still,  the  territorial  claims  of  the  contestants  ^vas not  finally  settled  until  1825,  when,  after  a  nearly  continuous warfare  of  almost  two  centuries  with  the  Illinois  or  their  succes- sors, it  was  agreed  at  a  treaty,  held  at  Prairie  du  Chien,  bet\\'een the  United  States,  the  Winnebagoes,  the  Sacs  and  Foxes,  the Pottiwatomies,  and  other  attending  tribes,  that  "the  Winnebago country  should  be  bounded  as  follows:  Southeasterly,  by  Rock River,  from  its  source  near  the  Winnebago  Lake  [in  Central- eastern  AVisconsin],  to  the  Winnebasro  Villaoe,  about  fortv  miles above  its  mouth,""  etc.,  etc.;  [near  the  mouth  of  the  Peck-a-ton- o-kea,  Jo  Daviess  Co.,  Ill]  A  map  will  indicate  what  portion  of Illinois  this  boundary  describes.
As  compared  with  the  Algonquin  tribes,  history  records  but few  complaints  against  the  Winnebagoes  in  the  predatory  war- fare uj)on  the  white  settlements.  The  bravery  of  their  warriors is  fully  attested,  however,  in  the  several  engagements  with  the forces  of  Gov.  St.  Clair  and  Gen.  Wayne,  in  which  they  fought with  conspicuous  courage.  The  whole  tribe  were  fairly  carried by  Tecumthe  and  his  brother,  the  Prophet,  and  gave  hearty  sup- port to  all  the  nefarious  schemes  of  these  agitators.  Xaw-kaw, the  principle  chief  of  their  jiation,  and  Hoo-tshoop-kaw,  of  lesser note,  were  two  of  Tecumthe's  personal  attendants,  and  followed him  in  all  his  extended  missions  of  proselytism  amon^:^  the  nations of  the  Mississippi  Valley.  In  the  war  of  181 2,  these  two  \\'in- nebagoes  were  members  of  the  sacred  band,  that  guarded Tecumthe's  person;  they  were  near  him  when  he  fell,  with  mor- tal wounds,  at  the  battle  of  the  Thames,  and  assisted  in  bearing his  dead  body  from  the  field  to  a  place  of  secure  interment.'"
*  At  the  Treaty  of  Prairie  du  Ciiieii,  concluded  Aug.  i,  1829,  at  which  the ^^'innebagoe5  ceded  their  lands  in  Illinois  and  \Visconsin  to  the  L'nited •States,  Caleb  Atwater,  Esq.,  one  of  the  commissioners  acting  on  the  part  of the  latter,  there  met  Naw-kaw,  who,  he  says,  "complained  to  me  that,  in  all of  our  accounts  of  Tecumthe,  ue  had  only  said  of  him  that,  'Winnebago,  vdio always  accompanies  Tecumthe',  without  calling  the  Winnebago  by  his  name, Xaw-kaw  Caromaine. " — "Atwater's  Tour  to  Prairie  du  Chien."  The  same author,  in  his  "History  of  Ohio",  says,  in  this  connection,  while  at  Prairie du  Chien,  in  1829,  "  ?>  aw-caw  [Wood]  and  Hoo-tshoop-kaw  [Eour  legs]  wevQ ■^vith  him;  and  that,  from  statements  of  these  constant  companions  of  Tecum- the, during  nearly  twenty  years  of  his  life,  we  proceed  to  state,  that  'iecumtlie lay  with  his  warriors  in  a  thick  underbrush,  on  the  left  of  the  American  army; that  these  Indians  were  at  no  period  of  the  battle  out  of  their  thick  under- brush; that  Naw-caw  saw  no  officer  between  tliem  and  the  American  army; that  Tecumthe  fell  [at]  the  very  first  fire  of  the  Kentucky  dragoons,  pierced  by
I
I40  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
At  the  engagement  at  Tippecanoe,  the  conduct  of  the  Winne- bago braves  was  a  matter  of  especial  mention.  We  quote  from Gen.  Harrisons  ^Memoirs:  '-A  Winnebago  cliief  a|)proached  the exterior  [camp]  fire  of  Capt.  Barton's  company,  where  tlie  hnes had  been  considerably  drawn  ni,  and  pushing  up  the  brands  to make  a  hght.  squatted  down  to  peck  his  [gun]  flint,  or  to  do something  with  his  gun.  He  was,  however,  immediately  fired  at from  Capt.  Cook's  company,  which  was  not  more  than  t\\enty yards  from  him,  and  fell  dead  into  the  fire.  One  of  the  men asked  the  captain's  permission  to  go  and  scalp  him;  and,  as  no attack  had  been  miade  on  that  part  of  the  line  for  some  time,  he was  allowed  to  go.  The  Yankee,  however,  being  inexperienced in  the  business,  it  took  him  some  time  to  effect  it;  he  was  fired at,  and  returned  to  his  company  with  the  scalp  in  his  hand, indeed,  but  with  a  ball  through  his  body,  which  caused  his  death in  a  few  hours  after.  In  the  course  of  the  battle,  the  Indian  was taken  off,  without  being  observed  by  Captain  Cook,  and  conveyed to  the  [Prophets]  town,  where  his  body  was  found  and  knov\-n by  its  having  been  scalped  and  much  burned.  The  body  had been  taken  away  without  Capt.  Cook's  perceiving  it,  and  is  an instance  of  the  care  with  which  the  Indians  remove  the  dead bodies  of  tlieir  friends  in  action.  At  Tippecanoe,  they  rushed up  to  the  bayonets  of  our  men,  and  in  one  instance,  rekited  b)' Capt.  Snelhng,  an  Indian  adroitly  put  the  bayonet  of  a  soldier aside,  and  clove  his  head  with  a  war-club — ^an  instrument  on which  there  is  fixed  a  triangular  piece  of  iron,  broad  enough  to project  several  inches  from  the  wood."  ''Their  conduct  on  this occasion,  so  difi"erent  from  what  it  usually  is,  was  attributed  to  a confidence  of  success,  with  which  their  Prophet  had  inspired them,  and  to  the  dist'uiguisJu'd  bravery  of  the  JJ'uiiiebago  K'arriors."
The  only  disturbances  with  which  this  people  seem  to  have been  connected,  subsequent  to  the  war  of  1S12,  was  that  of  the so-called  Winnebago  War  [or  scare]  of  1S27.  Several  acts  of reciprocal  hostility  had  been  committed  between  individual  Win- nebagoes  and  whites  along  the  upper  Mississippi,  which  soon defected  the  whole  tribe,  and,  for  a  while,  threatened  the  ];eace of  the  entire  northwestern  frontier.  (]ov.  Reynolds,  in  his  ''.My Own  Times",  gives  the  following  account  of  the  cause  that  pro- voked   the    breach    of    the    peace:     "About    the    last    of    July,
thirty  Fjullets,  and  was  carried  four  or  five  miles  into  the  thick  woods,  and there  buried  by  the  warriors,  who  told  the  story  of  hi.^  fate.  Ihis  account was  repeated  to  me  three  several  times  word  for  word,  and  neitlier  of  the relaters  ever  knew  the  fictions  to  which  Tecumthe's  death  has  given  use."
THE   WIXXEBAGOES.         ■,  •.       ,  I4I
1S27,'"  the  ^\'innebago  V/ar  occurred  in  the  country  around  aiid north  of  Galena,  in  this  State.  The  cause  of  this  sniah  speck  of of  war  was  a  great  outrage  committed  by  the  Avhites  on  the Indians,  which  was  of  such  brutahty,  that  it  is  painful  to  record. Two  keel -boats,  of  the  contractor  to  furnish  provisions  for  the troops  at  the  Falls  of  St.  Anthony,  stopped  at  a  large  camp  of the  Winnebago  Indians,  on  the  river  not  f.u"  above  Prairie  du Chien.  The  boatman  made  tlie  Indians  drunk — and,  no  doubt, were  so  themselves — when  they  captured  some  six  or  seven squaws,  who  were  also  drunk.  These  squaws  were  Ibrcecl  on  the boat  for  coiTupt  and  brutal  piirposts.''  [The  ^^ords  are  put  in Italics  by  the  Governor.]  "But  not  satisfied  with  this  outrage  on female  -virtue,  the  boatmen  took  the  squaws  with  them  in  the boats  to  Fort  Snelling,  and  returned  \\\\\\  them.  ^Vhen  the  Indi- ans became  sober,  and  knew  the  injury  done  them  in  this  ac/icafc point,  they  mustered  all  their  forces,  amounting  to  several  hun- dreds, and  attacked  the  boats  in  which  the  squaws  were  confined. The  boats  were  forced  to  approach  near  the  shore  in  a  narrow pass  of  the  river,t  and  thus  the  infuriated  savages  assailed  one boat,  and  permitted  the  other  to  pass  down  in  the  night.  Tlie boatmen  were  not  entirely  prepared  for  the  attack,  although  to some  extent  they  were  guarded  against  it.  They  had  procured some  arms,  and  were  on  the  alert  to  some  degree.  The  Indians laid  down  in  their  canoes,  and  tried  to  paddle  them  to  the  boat; but  the  whites,  seeing  this,  fired  their  muskets  on  those  in  the canoes.  It  was  a  desperate  and  furious  fight,  for  a  few  moments, between  a  good  many  Indians  exposed  in  open  canoes,  and  only a  few  boatmen,  protected  to  some  extent  by  their  boats.  One boatman,  a  sailor  by  profession  on  the  lakes  and  ocean,  who  had been  in  many  battles  with  the  British  during  the  war  of  1012, saved  the  boat  and  those  of  the  crew  who  were  not  killed.  The man  was  large  and  strong,  and  possessed  the  courage  of  an African  lion.  He  seized  a  part  of  the  setting-pole  of  the  boat, which  was  about  four  feet  long,  and  having  on  the  end  a  piece  of iron,  which  made  it  weiglity,  and  a  [towertul  weapon  in  the  hands of  Saucy  Jack,  as  this  champion  is  called.     It  is  stated  that  when
*  Gov.  Reynolds  errs  as  to  il.e  time.  I1ie  attack  on  the  keel-boat,  men- tioned a  little  further  on,  was  on  the  evening  ot  June  26;  and  the  grievances which  induced  the  assault,  occurred  some  days  before  that,  /7rt!6' a  valuable paper  on  the  "Early  Times  in  Wi^con-^in",  contributed  by  Hon.  James  IE Eockwood,  of  P'rairie  du  Chien,  and  published  in  Vol.  2,  Wis.  Hist.  Col.
+  The  place  was  near  the  mouth  of  Bad- Ax  River;  and  the  attack  wa^ made  near  sunset.     Judge  Eock wood's  paper,  before  quoted.
Ill
142  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDLVNS.
the  Indians  attempted  to  board  tlie  boat,  Jack  would  knock them  back  into  the  river  as  fast  as  they  approached.  The  boat got  fast  on  the  ground,  and  the  whites  seemed  doomed,  but  wiili great  exertion,  courage,  and  hard  fighting,  the  Indians  were repelled.  The  savages  killed  several  white  men  and  wounded many  more,  leaving  barely  enough  to  navigate  the  boat.  It  is said  that  Jack  had  four  Indian  scalps,  which  he  took  from  tlie same  number  of  Indians  that  he  killed  himself.  In  the  battle the  squaws  escaped  to  their  husbands,  and,  no  doubt,  the  wlhtes did  not  try  to  prevent  it.  Thus  commenced,  and  thus  ended  the bloodshed  of  the  ^^'innebago  ^^'ar."'
The  eftusion  of  blood  v.-ould  not  have  ended  here,  but  for  the prompt  measures  taken  by  Gen.  Lewis  Cass  to  prevent  it.     The latter,  with  Col.  Thos.  L.  ^IcKenney,  as  commissioners  on  behalf of  the  United  States,  were  at  Butte  des  ]Morts'"  on  a  day  fixed       "        f for  a  treaty  to  be  held,  in  part,  to  settle  some  matters  as  to  boun-  I
daries  that  were  "left  undefined  by  the  treaty  of  Aug.  19,  1825,  |
at  Prairie  du  Chien",  and   to  establish   the  boundaries  of  "the        .       | tract  claimed  by  the  former  French  and  British  Governments "'  at  J
Green  Bay.     "We  quote  the  following  from  an  article  on  ''Early         .      I Times  in  Wisconsin'",  A\ritten  l)y  Lion.  H.  A.  Tenney:t    "On  the  |
day  fixed  for  the  council,  not  an  Indian  appeared.     Alarmed  at  f
this  and   other  hostile  signs.   Gen.  Cass  rapidly  descended   the  |
river  [\Visconsin]  to   Prairie  du  Chien,  where  the  people  had  all  |
taken  shelter  in  the  garrison, ;};  and  where  he  heard  of  the  attack  |
on  the  government  boat.     Hastening  to  Galena,  he  notified  tlie  I
citizens  there  of  their  danger,  and  advised  them  to  build  a  block-  I
house  for  their  protection.      From  Galena  Gen.  Cass  proceeded  f
to  Jefterson  Barracks  [a  few  miles  below  St.  Louis].      A  large  |
force,  under  Gen.  [Henry]  Atkinson,  immediately  came  up  the  |
*  ITie  'Tjutte  des  Morts" — hill  of  the  dead — near  the  banks  of  Fox  River,  | in  Winnebago  Co.,  Wis.;  a  large  and  apparently  artificial  mound,  said  to  f contain  the  remains  of  Indian  warriors,  killed  in  ancient  battles.  Its  notoriety  | dates  back  of  all  written  history,  however  early,  of  this  part  of  the  Northwe.-t,  | and, gathers  about  it  the  charms  of  many  traditions.  f
t  Published  in  Vol.  I,  of  the  "Wisconsin  Historical  Collections."  I
*  Fort  Crawford,  Wis.,  oii  the  left  bank  of  the  ?^Iississippi,  just  above  the  %' the  mouth  of  the  Wisconsin,  and  so  uamed  in  honor  of  \Vm.  11.  Crawford,  , Secretary  of  AVar.  I'revious  to  this,  June,  1S14,  during  the  war  of  1S12,  .  ^ Prairie  du  Chien  Vv-as  cnptured,  from  emissaries  of  the  I^ritish,  by  an  expedi-  '^ tion  sent  up  the  Mississippi  by  Cov.  Wm.  Clark  of  Missouri,  under  command  ^ of  Capt.  Z.  Taylor;  j\nd  sixty  of  the  latter';-:  men,  in  charge  of  Lieut.  Perkins,  | remained  there  and  erected  a  fort,  which  ihcy  named  Fort  Shelby.  |
THE   WINNEBAGOES.  I43
river  in  boats  as  far  as  the  portage  at  Fort  Winnebago,-''  Clcnerals Dodge  and  Whitesides.  with  companies  of  volunteers,  following •along  each  side  on  land,  and  scouring  out  the  lurking  savages. A  force  from  Green  Bay  concentrated  on  the  same  spot;  and  the Indians  beheld,  with  dismay,  a  formidable  army  in  the  midst  of their  country.  The  result  ■\\-as  a  treaty  of  peace,  and  the  giving up  of  Red  Bird  [a  Winnebago  chief],  vrho  had,  a  year  previous, massacred  a  family  near  Prairie  du  Chien.''
While,  these  events  were  taking  place  on  the  Mississippi  and in  Wisconsin,  then  a  part  of  the  Territory  of  Michigan,  matters were  by  no  means  quiet  in  northern  Illinois.  The  inhabitants  at Fort  Dearborn,  alarmed  at  the  quite  apparent  unfriendly  demeanor of  the  Indians  frequenting  that  Post,  and  from  which  the  United States  military  forces  had  been  withdrawn,  dispatched  messengers to  the  Pottawatomie  village  of  Big-Foot,  at  Geneva  Lake,  to  learn the  purposes  of  the  Winnebagoes,  and  ascertain  if  BigT'oot's band  intended  joining  them.  The  report  brought  back  was  not favorable,  and  the  excited  citizens,  at  the  suggestion  of  Gurdon S.  Hubbard,  looked  toward  the  Wabash  for  assistance.  Accord- ingly, i^Ir.  Hubbard,  leaving  Chicago  about  four  o'clock  in  the evening,  following  an  Indian  trail,  a  distance  of  a  hundred  and twenty- seven  ■  miles,  through  an  uninhabited  country,  reaching the  settlements  two  miles  south  of  Danville  in  the  early  afternoon of  the  next  day.  Within  the  next  twenty-four  hours,  the  Vermil- ion-County Battalion,  as  the  inhabitants  capable  of  bearing  arms
*  Erected  r.ear  the  head  of  Eox  River,  at  the  Portage,  or  land  carriage, between  it  and  the  Wi.^con.sin,  which,  at  the  time  referred  to,  was  right  in the  heart  of  the  "Winnebago  country".  I'his  "carrying  place"  is  a  noted spot  in  the  di;icovcry  and  exploration  of  the  Northwest.  Here  leather  Mar- quette and  Louis  Joliet,  on  tlie  loth  day  of  June,  1673,  with  the  assistance  of their  two  friendly  Miami  guides,  transported  their  canoes  a  distance  of  '•  twenty- seven  hundred  paces"  from  the  scarcely-discernible  channel  of  Fox  River, choked  as  it  was  with  a  rank  and  tangled  growth  of  wild  oats,  to  the  broad current  of  the  Wisconsin;  down  which  they  voyaged,  says  the  good  father, "alone  in  an  unknown  country,  in  the  hands  of  Providence";  and  we  niay add,  on  a  journey  that  immortalized  him  an  unsuught  fame,  and  first  gave  the Mississippi  River  the  name  it  bears,  and  (t(j  tliai  part  of  the  stream  alx)vc  the mouth  of  the  xVrkansas)  a  place  in  geography.  Mrs.  John  H,  Kinzie,  in  her "Wau-Bun" — a  volume  replete  with  valuable  historical  matter  entertainingly arranged,  relating  to  "The  I'arly  I  Jay  in  the  Northwest" — gives  a  beautiful sketch  of  Fort  Winnebago,  drawn  by  her  own  pencil,  as  it  appeared  in  1831, while  she  resided  there,  her  husband  having  charge  of  the  Indian  agency  at tliat  station.
144  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
Avere  called,  were  assembled  at  Butler's  Point,  the  then  connty- seat;  and  a  volunteer  force  of  lifty  men  organized;  and  on  the next  day — ha\-ing  dispersed,  in  the  meantime,  to  their  homes  to cook  up  five-days'  rations — were  on  their  way  to  Fort  Dearborn, where  they  and  Mr.  Hubbard  arrived  on  the  seventh  day  after his  departure.  Several  days  later,  word  was  received  of  the  suc- cess of  Gen.  Cass"  movements,  and  the  termination  of  hostilities.'-'
In  the  so-called  Black-Hawk  AVar,  in  Illinois  and  Wisconsin  in 1832,  "it  was  feared"',  say  Judge  Jas.  Hall  and  Col.  Thos.  L' ]\IcKenney,  in  their  History  of  the  Indian  Tribes  of  North America,  '"that  the  Winnebagoes,  inhabiting  the  country  immedi- ately north  of  the  hostile  Indians,  would  unite  with  them,  and, forming  a  powerful  combination,  would  devastate  the  defenceless before  our  Government  could  adopt  measures  for  its  relief  The opportunity  was  a  tempting  one  to  a  savage  tribe  naturally  dis- posed to  war,  and  always  prepared  for  its  most  sudden  exigen- cies; and  many  of  the  \Vinnebagoes  were  eager  to  rush  into  the contest.  But  the  policy  of  Xaw-caw  was  decidedly  pacific,  and his  conduct  was  consistant  with  his  judgment  and  his  professions. To  keep  his  followers  from  temptation,  as  well  as  to  place  tliem under  the  eye  of  an  agent  of  our  Government,  he  encamped  with them  near  the  agency,  under  the  charge  of  ]Mr.  [John  H.]  Kinzie, expressing  on  all  occasions  his  disapprobation  of  the  war,  and his  determination  to  avoid  all  connection  with  those  engaged  in it.  The  Indian  tribes  are  often  divided  into  parties,  having  their respective  leaders,  who  alone  can  control  their  partisans  in  times of  excitement.  So  among  the  Winnebagoes;  a  few  restless  and unprincipled  individuals,  giving  loose  to  their  propensity  for  blood and  j)lunder  by  joining  the  war  parties,  while  the  great  body  of the  tribe  remained  at  peace,  under  the  iniluence  of  their  vener- able chief"'
Immediately  on  the  close  of  the  Black-Hawk  War,  by  a  treaty concluded  Sept.  15,  1832,  at  Ft.  Armstrong,  at  Rock  Island,  111., the  Winnebagoes  ceded  to  the  United  States  all  of  their  lands lying  south  and  east  of  the  Wisconsin  River  and  the  Fox  River of  Green  Bay;  and,  by  a  subsequent  treaty  concluded  Nov.  i, 1837,  they  parted  with  the  residue  of  their  lands  lying  east  of the  Mississippi.  By  the  terms  of  this  Last  treaty,  they  were  to remove  beyond  the  river  :iame_d  within  eight  months  thereafter, an  engagement  they  did  not  comply  with  until  some  three  years
*  A  more  detailed  account  of  the  Winnebago  War,  as  it  manifested  itself in  the  vicinity  of  Chicago,  will  be  found  in  Number  Ten  of  Fergus'  Historical Series.  /
I  THE   WINNEBAGOES.                                     1 45
I  after.      After  being  unceremoniously  changed   about   from   one
I  reservation  to  anotiier,  by  the  United  States  Government,  with
I  little  regard  for  its  solemn  stipulations,  to  suit  ca])rices  and  avarice
I  of  the  ever-encroaching  white  immigration,  we  find  the  AA'inneba-
I  goes,  in  1S65,  settled  (let  us  trust  permanently)  on  the  Omaha Reservation  in  Nebraska,  where  the  superintendent  of  Indian affairs,  in  his  report  for  that  year,  says  of  them:    "This  tribe  is
I  characterized    by   frugality,   thrift,    and    industry    to    an    extent
I  imequaled    by  any  other   tribe   of    Indians    in    the    Northwest.
f.  Loyal  to  the  Government,  and  peaceful  toward  their  neighbors,
I  they  are  entitled  to  the  fostering  care  of  the  General  Govern-
S  ment."     It  seems  that  the  shifting  of  them  about  for  a  number  of
I  preceding  years  had  been  their  means  of  education  and  religious
I  instruction;  for,  in  December,  1864,  we  find  they 'addressed  the
I  President  as  follows:     'Tt  is  our  sincere  desire  to  have  again
I  established  among  us  such  schools  as  we  see  in  operation  among
I  your  Omaha  children.     Father,  as  soon  as  you  find  a  permanent
I  home  for  us,  will  you  not  do  this  for  us?     And,  father,  as  we
I  would  like  our  children  taught  the  Christian  religion  as  before,
I  we  would  like  our  schools  placed  under  the  care  of  the  Presby-
I.  terian  Board  of  Foreign  Missions.     And  last,  father,  to  show  you
I  our  sincerity,  we  desire  to  have  set  apart  for  its  establishment,
I  erection,  and  support,  all  of  our  school  funds,  and  whatever  more
I  is  necessary.'
I  Again;    the  Government  agent,  in  his  report   for  1S66,  says,
I  concerning  the  Winnebagoes:   "There  has  returned  to  the  tribe,
I  within  the  few  past  weeks,  about  one  hundred  soldiers,  who  have
i  served,  with  credit  to  themselves  and  to  their  tribe,  in  defence  of
*  their  county.      I  consider  the  Winnebagoes  one  of  the  best  tribes
I  of  Indians  in  the  country,  and,  with  pro|)er  treatment,  they  v/ill
»  soon  become  a  self-sustaining,  prosperous  people."    In  1863,  their
I  fighting  men  were  estimated  at  three  hundred  and  sixty.     I'he
I  census  report  of  their  numbers  in  1865  gave  them  nineteen  hun-
i  dred,  omitting  those  still  remaining  in  Wisconsin.      "They  are  a
i  vigorous,  athletic  race,  and  received  from  the  Sioux  the  name  of
I  0-toii-ha,  which  is  said  to  mean  'the  large  and  strong  people'."'^
I  'I'hey  ha.ve  given  a  name  to  a  lake,  a  fort,  a  town,  and  county  in
I  ^Viscorjsin,  and  to  a  county  in  northern  Illinois.
%  *  Geo.  Gale's  "Upper  Mississippi."
146  ILLINOIS   AND   INDIANA    INDIANS.
THE  FOX  AND  SACS.
The  Foxes  called  themselves  Mosk-wah-ha-kee,  a  name  com- pounded from  the  two  words  in  their  language,  Mosk-wali  [red] and  Ha-kee  [earth],  Red  Earths,  or,  they  of  the  Red  Earth Their  totem  or  armorial  device  was  a  fox,'''  and  it  is,  doubtless, from  this  circumstance  that  they  were  called  Outagamies  (accord- ing to  French  orthography)  or  Foxes  by  neighboring  tribes,  and the  signification  of  which  French  writers  have  preserved  in  the translation  ''Les  Renards'\  Eike  the  Illinois,  Miamis,  and  Kick- apoos,  already  treated  of,  the  Foxes  were,  also,  a  subdivision  of the  great  Algonquin  family;  and  their  differences  in  dialect,  man- ners, and  customs  from  those  of  other  tribes  of  the  same  stock, were  caused  by  the  differences  of  their  surroundings. t
We  first  hear  of  the  Foxes  on  the  north  shore  of  Lake  Ontario. engaged  in  an  unnatural  alliance  with  the  Iroquois  in  the  exter- minating war  then  being  waged  by  the  latter  upon  the  Flurons; and,  "by  attempting  to  keep  terms  with  botli  parties,  pleased neither.  They  soon  drew  ui)on  themselves  the  enmity  of  their kindred  tribes,  and  the  execrations  of  the  French,  who  heapc^l upon  them  and  their  vacillating  policy  every  term  of  reproach. And  later  they  were  driven  from  old  Toronto  through  the  strait> of  Niagara  to  Detroit-^'J  From  Detroit  they  seem  to  have  run the  gauntlet  of  neighboring  and  hostile  tribes  around  the  shores  ot Lake  Huron  to  Mackinac,  and  from  thence  to  the  river  wliich has  ever  since  borne  their  name,  where,  near  its  debouchmer.i with  the  southern  extremity  of  Oreen  Bay,  Wisconsin,  they  found a  refuge  from  tlieir  enemies  that  v/as  only  temporary  at  best. Here  we  leave  them,  for  the  moment,  to  notice  their  brethren. the  Sacs,  and  give  the  brief  account,  which  meager  historical mention  has  preserved  of  the  latter,  down  to  the  period  of  time
*  Official  report  of  M.  de  la  Chauvignerie  on  the  "  Indian  Tribes  conneciC'l with  the  Government  of  Canada,  tlie  Warriors  and  armorial  bearings  of  each Nation,  1736."
+  '"The  Foxes  speak  a  well-char;iclerized  (Halect  of  the  Algonquin;  a  not- able difference  being  the  substitution  of  tiic  letter  I  wherein  the  Chippewa^ u^e  the  letter  n."  Address  (and  note  appended)  of  Hon.  Henry  R.  School- craft on  "The  Origin  and  Character  of  the  North  American  Indians",  etc., etc.     Delivered  before  the  Historical  .Society  of  Michigan.
X  Schoolcraft's  same  Address.
THE    FOX    AND    SACS.  _  I47
when  the  two  tribes  again  met,  this  time  iiiion  tlie  waters  of  Fox River,  "\\'i5Consin,  and  united  in  a  bond  of  fellowship  that  was never  after  broken.
Ousakis;  Sakys;  Saiiks;  0-sauk-ies;  Ou-sa-ki-uek  [tlie  uek giving  the  plural  number  to  the  noun];  0-sau-kee;  and,  by  cus- tom of  modern  wTiters,  abbreviated  to  Sacs,  are  the  appellations by  which  this  people  were  known.  The  name  seems  to  have originated  with  the  tribe,  and  to  have  been  derived  from  tw^o words  in  their  tongue,  r/s. ,•  Os-sa-Vv'ah  [yellow]  and  Ha-kee [earth  or  land];  which  is  to  say,  the  Yellow  Earths,  or  they  of the  Yellow  Land.  French  writers  have  very  little  to  say  of  the Sacs — and  for  the  matter  of  that,  the  Foxes,  too — ^prior  to  the time  when  they  eftected  a  lodgment  in  Wisconsin.
The  great  chief.  Black  Hawk,  distinguished  alike  as  a  warrior and  a  historian,  well  learned  in  the  traditions  of  his  tribe,  in  liis autobiography  gives  the  following  early  account  of  his  people:'''
"I  was"',  says  Black  Hawk,  ",born  at  the  Sac  village,  on  Rock River,  in  the  year  1767,  and  am  now  in  my  67th  year.  My great-grandfather,  Xa-na-ma-kee,  or  Thunder  (according  to  the tradition  given  me  by  my  father,  Py-e-oa),  was  born  in  the  vici- nity of  Montreal,  where  the  (ireat  Spirit  first  placed  the  Sac nation,  and  inspired  him  with  a  belief  that,  at  the  end  of  four years,  he  would  see  a  n'hitc  man  [alluding  to  the  coniing  of  tl^e French]  who  would  be  to  him  a  father."  '^  "  '^  "After  a long  time,  the  British  overpowered  the  French  (the  two  nations being  at  war),  drove  them  away  from  Quebec,  and  took  posses- sion of  it  themselves.t  I'he  diflerent  tribes  of  Indians  around our  nation  envying  our  peo{)le,  united  their  forces  against  tliem, and  succeeded,  by  their  great  strength,  to  drive  them  to  Mon- treal, and  from  thence  to  Mackinac.  Here  our  ]jeople  first  met our  British  father,  who  furnished  them  with  goods. :{;     Their  ene-
*  The  contents  of  this  little  book  was  dictated  by  lUack  Hawk  himself,  in 1S33,  to  Antf)inc  r>e  Clair,  U.  S.  Interpreter  for  the  Sacs  and  Foxes  at  Jvock Fland,  Illinois,  in  presence  of  J.  1..  Patterson  of  the  same  place,  and  by  the latter  written  down  at  the  time,  and  by  whom  it  was,  the  next  year,  1834, "^opyrii^hted  and  pu!)lished.
t  I'lack  Hawk  doubtless  refers  liere  to  the  surrender  of  (Quebec  by  M.  de <'liamplain  to  the  IJriti.^h  fleet  conimandetl-by  the  l)rothcrs  Sir  David,  Louis, ind  Thomas  Kertk,  or  Kirke,  in  1629.
•t  Taken  in  the  sense  that  the  Fox  and  Sacs  7<'<7//  to  Mackinac  for  the  pur- i'O.-^es  of  barter;  Dlack  Hawk's  statement  as  to  meeting  iJritish  traders  there is  confirmed  by  official  documents,  b(jth  French  and  l.nglisli.  Otherwise,  and <'\vin^'  to  an  infirndty  common  to  a  race  havmg  no  written  records  and  givinij
l-<
148  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.  r      ,
mies  still  pursued  them,  and  drove  them  to  different  ])laces  on the  lake,  until  the\'  made  a  village  near  Green  Bay,  on  what  is now  called  S'Jl  River,  having  derived  its  name  from  this  circum- stance. Here  they  held  a  council  with  the  Foxes,  and  a  national treaty  of  friendship  and  alliance  was  concluded  upon.  The Foxes  abandoned  their  village  and  joined  the  Sacs.  This  ar- rangement being  mutually  obligatory  upon  both  parties,  as  nei- ther was  sufficiently  strong  to  meet  their  enemies  with  any  ho})e of  success,  they  soon  became  as  one  band  or  nation  of  people." On  their  way  up  the  lakes,  the  Sacs  remained  in  Northeastern Michigan  a  sufficient  time  to  give  their  name  to  Saginaw  Bay,  as the  word  is  now  spelled :  the  orthography  of  early  French  writers being  Sac-e-nong  [the  place  of  the  Sacs];  Sak-i-nau;  Sag-i-nau, in  all  which  its  derivation  is  more  nearly  preserved.  They  could not,  however,  have  occupied  that  vicinity  long  enough  to  make it  "the  principal  seat  of  their  power'',  as  affirmed  by  Judge James  Hall  and  Col.  Thos.  L.  McKinney,  in  their  "Historv  of the  Indian  Tribes  of  North  America'';  elsewise  French  authori- ties would  contain  a  niore  extended  mention  of  them  in  this  con- nection.""
little  care  to  chronology,  there  is  a  confusion  as  to  dates.  Traders  froiii  the British  Colony  of  New  York  M'ere  at  Mackinac  with  Indian  i,u)C)ds  in  16S5. where  they  made  so  profitable  a  venture  as  to  invite  a  Larger  expedition  in  iIk' fall  of  1686.  This  last,  the  following  year,  paddling  their  canoes  up  the  lakes by  way  of  Niagara,  in  two  detachments,  one  comnianded  by  Rosebooni,  an Albany  Dutchman,  in  advance,  the  other  by  McGregory,  were  intercepted and  captured  by  the  watchful  French  and  their  Indian  allies;  the  former,  on Lake  Huron,  by  Durantaye,  and  McGregory's  party  by  LaSalle's  lienienant, the  Chevalier  Henry  de  Tonty,  on  Lake  Erie,  "at  the  distance",  says  Tonty, ■"of  twenty  leagues  from  Niagara".  The  immediate  building  of  a  foit  at  tlio inouth  of  the  Niagara  River,  and  the  establishment  of  a  similar  defence  near Detroit  shortly  after,  effectually  barred  British  subjects  out  of  the  Western country'.  FiW^  "Tonty's  Account,  etc.,  of  LaSalle",  "P'rancis  Parkman's Frontenac",  and  "New  France  under  Louis  XIV.",  and  authorities  there cited.  It  will  be  seen  farther  on  that  the  Jesuit  fathers  make  mention  ot  tlv: Fo.\es  and  Sacs  as  living  at;out  the  upper  extremity  of  (ireen  Bay  in  1606. some  twenty  years  l>e/b;-e  the  breaking  up  of  the  British  trade  upon  the  upper lakes.
*  Professor  Schoolcraft  and  Dr.  E.  B.  O'Callyhan— the  able  editor  of  the Documentary,  as  well  "The  Colonial  History  of  New  York" — buJi  adept.> in  this  special  field  of  enquiry,  concur  with  the  traditions  given  by  Black Hawk  of  his  people  as  having  formerly  livefl  along  the  north  shore  of  Lake Ontario.      Dr.  John  Gilmary  ^ihea — of  equal  high  standard  authority  in  the
THE   FOX    AND    SACS.  1 49
I  The  years  1669-1670  bring  the  Fox  and  Sac  fairly  within  the
I  range  of  rehable   historical   mention,   although    they    had    been
I  referred   to,  two  years   before,  in  definite   terms  in   the   ''Jesuit
I  Relations''  of  1666  and  1667,     Father  Claude  Allouez,  who  had
I  already,  early  in  December,   1666,  established  a  mission  at  the
I  mixed  village  of  Ottawas,  Potta\vatoraies,  Foxes  and  Sacs,  near
I  the  site  of  the  present  city  of  Green  Ba}^,  calling  it  "The  Mis-
I  sion  of  St.  Francis  Xavier"',  for  the  reason  that  he  said  his  first
I  mass  there  on  the  festival   day  of   that  saint. ^       In  a  pastoral
letter  sent  from  this  mission  to  his  revd  father  superior,  says: "The  16th  of  April  [1670],  I  embarked  to  go  and  commence the  mission  of  the  Outagamis,  a  people  well  known  in  all  these parts.  +  We  were  lying  at  the  head  of  the  bay,  at  the  entrance of  River  of  the  Puants  [Fox  River],  which  we  have  named  the
I  whole  department  of  aboriginal  history — on  the  contrary,  dissents  and  says  he
I  "can  find  nothing  in  early  French  writers  to  support  the  assertion."     And
that  "the  Sacs  certainly  were  never  much  to  the  eastward  of  Lake  St.  Clair." Vide s.  valuable  paper  on  "The  Indian  Tribes  of  Wisconsin",  contributed  by him  to  and  published  in  Vol.  III.,  of  the  "Historical  Collections  of  that State".  This  conflict  of  opinion  niay  be  readily  reconciled  on  the  theory that  the  absence  of  mention  of  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  as  dwelling  along  Lake Ontario,  by  early  French  writers,  may  be  owing  to  the  fact  that  they  may have  been  referred  to  under  some  other  name,  as  was  the  case  with  the  Ojeb- ways  or  Chippeways  about  Lake  vSuperior.  It  is  notorious  that  the  Jesuit fathers,  whose  princi[)al  missions  were  in  that  quarter,  in  their  many  enumer- ations of  the  surrounding  Indian  nations,  say  the  "Chippeways  are  never  once mentioned  by  tJiat  name,"  although  they  were  the  most  numerous,  and  the
I  tribe  with  which  the  fathers  had  most  to  do,  and  in  the  very  heart  of  whose
I  country  tlieir  sacred  altars  were  erected.      Vide  Albert  Gallatin's  "Synopsis  of
I  the  Indian  Tribes  of  North  America".
I  *  Father  Claude  Alloucz's  Journal  and  Dr.  Shea's  Catholic  Missions.
\  \  Hall  and  McKinucy,   in  their  "History  of  N.  A.  Indians",   not  having
access  to  reliable  data^  erroneously  state  that  after  their  defeat  and  almost destruction  near  Detroit,  aheady  referred  to  in  the  chapter  on  the  Kickapoos, "the  remainder  of  the  Foxes,  with  the  Sauks,  migrated  to  the  country  be- tween Green  Bay  and  the  Mississippi,  and  established  themselves  upon  Fox River,"  The  official  report  of  the  otU(X-r,  IJuisson,  who  commanded  the French  and  their  Indian  allies,  shows  that  this  attack  upon  Detroit  took  place in  1712;  while,  as  is  clearly  seen  from  Fatlu.r  Allouez's  letter,  the  l-'oxcs  and Sacs  were  "a  people  well  known"  about  Green  Uay  and  up  Fox  River  nearly a  half  of  a  century  before  the  time  assigned  by  Hall  and'  McKinney  as  the <jate  of  their  migration  thither.     '
M|    I
I50  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
Sf.  Francis:  in  passing  we  saw  clouds  of  swans,  bustards,  and ducks;  the  sa\age3  take  tlieni  in  nets  at  the  liead  of  the  bay, where  they  catch  as  many  as  fifty  in  a  night:  this  game  in  the autumn  seek  the  wild-rice  that  the  wind  has  shaken  oft'  in  the month  of  September.  The  seventeenth,  we  went  up  tlie  River St.  Francis,  which  is  two  and  sometimes  three  arpents  wide." x\fter  having  advanced  four  leagues,  we  found  the  village  of  the savages  named  Saki,  who  began  a  work  that  nunits  well  to  ha\'e its  place  here.  From  one  side  of  the  river  to  the  other,  they  have made  a  barricade,  planting  great  stakes,  two  fathoms  from  tlie water,  in  such  a  manner  that  it  is,  as  it  were,  a  bridge  above  [the stream]  for  the  fishers,  who.  by  the  aid  of  a  little  bow-net,  easily take  sturgeons  and  all  other  kinds  of  fish  which  this  barricade stops,  while  it  permits  the  water  to  flow  between  the  stakes. They  call  this  device.  iMitch-i-can,  and  make  use  of  it  in  the spring  and  a  part  of  the  summer.  The  eighteenth,  we  made  the portage  which  they  call  Ke-kal-ing  [the  first  or  little  rapids  of Fox  River];  our  sailors  drew  the  canoe  through  the  rapids;  while I  walked  alor.g  the  bank  of  the  river,  where  I  found  appletrees and  vine-stocks  in  abundance.
"The  nineteenth,  our  sailors  ascended  the  [second]  rapids,  by using  poles,  for  two  leagues.  I  went  by  land  as  far  as  the  other portage,  whicli  they  call  ()u-ko-ci-ti-ming,  which  is  to  say,  tlie highway.  Wo.  observed  this  day  the  eclipse  of  the  sun  predicted by  the  astrologers,  which  lasted  from  mid-day  until  two  o'clock. The  third,  or  near  it,  of  the  body  of  the  sun  api)eared  eclii)sed : the  other  two-thirds  formed  a  crescent.  ^Ve  arrived  in  the  even- ing at  the  entrance  of  the  Lake  of  the  Puants  [Lake  WinnebagOj- which  we  have  called  Lake  Francis;  it  is  about  twelve  leagues long  and  four  wide;  it  is  situated  from  northeast  to  southwest, and  abounds  in  fish;  but  is  uninhabited  on  account  of  the  Nad- oue-cis  [Sioux]  v,-ho  are  here  dreaded.t     The  twentieth,  which
•  The  arpent  is,  primarily,  a  French  acre  of  land,  the  sides  of  which  arc  \\\ in  length  one  hundred  and  eighty  Paris  feet,  equal  to  one  liundred  and  ninety- two  feet  and  nearly  three  inches  Englisli  measurement.
t  This  fact,  stated  by  Father  AUouez,  illustrates  the  extent  to  which  the Dak-co-tas  pushed  their  incursions,  for  game  and  scalps,  eastward.  Indeed, they  claimed  as  their  exclusive  huntin^-"grounds  the  territory  clear  up  to  the shores  of  Lake  Superior  and  Clreen  Bay;  and  the  Iiistory  of  the  Ojelnvays, not  within  the  scope  of  this  volume,  and  who  made  common  cause  with  the Fox  and  Sac,  is  but  the  story  of  a  continuous  warfare  of  nearly  one  hundred and  fifty  years  duration  agninst  the  Siouv,  which  resulted  finally  in  driving them  permanently  westward  beyond  the  Mississip[;i.
THE    FOX    AND    SACS.  15I
Avas  on  Sunday,  1  said  mass,  after  having  navigated  five  or  six leagues  in  the  lake;  after  which  \\e  arrived  in  a  ri\-er  that  comes from  a  lake  [Pahwaikan  Lake]  of  wild-rice,  into  which  we  came, and  at  the  foot  of  which  we  found  the  river  [Fox]  which  leads, on  the  one  side,  to  the  Outagamis,  and  on  the  other,  the  stream [Wolf  River]  that  leads  to  the  Machkoutenck  [Mascoutins].  ^Ve entered  the  former,  which  comes  from  a  lake  where  we  saw  two wild  turkeys  perched  on  a  tree,  male  and  female,  exactly  like, in  size,  color,  and  cry,  those  of  P^rance.  The  bustards,  ducks, swans,  and  geese  are  of  great  numbers  in  all  these  lakes  and rivers,  attracted  tliither  by  the  wild-rice,  which  is  their  food. There  is  also  to  be  found  here  large  and  small  deer,  bears,  and beavers  in  sufficient  numbers.  The  twenty-fourth,  after  many turns  and  windings  in  the  different  lakes  and  rivers,"^  we  arrived at  the  village  of  the  Outagamis.
"This  nation  is  renowned  for  being  numerous.  They  have more  than  four  hundred  men  bearing  arms.  The  immber  of Avomen  and  children  is  greater  on  account  of  ]5olygamy  which exists  among  them — each  man  having  commonly  four  wives,  some of  them  six,  and  others  as  hi^h  as  ten.  *  *  '"  These  sav- ages have  retreated  to  these  parts  to  escape  the  Iroquois;  they are  settled  in  an  excellent  country;  the  soil,  which  is  here  black, yields  them  Indian-corn  in  abundance.  In  the  winter,  they  live by  the  chase;- about  the  end  of  it  they  return  to  thtir  cabins,  and there  live  on  Indian-corn,  which  they  had  put  in  cache  [the  name of  pits  prepared  in  the  ground  for  that  purpose]  in  autumn,  and which  they  season  with  fish.  They  have  a  fort  in  the  midst  ot their  forest,  where  their  cabins  of  thick  bark  are,  to  resist  all kinds  of  attacks.  In  traveling  they  lodge  themselves  with  mats. They  are  at  war  with  the  Nadiouecious,  their  neighbors. t     They
*  For  many  miles  below  the  portage  to  the  Wisconsin,  P^ox  River  expands into  several  little  lakes;  and  the  crooked  meanders  of  the  stream  through  the prairies  well  justifies  the  tradition  of  tlie  Winnebagoes,  related  by  Mrs.  Kin- zic  in  her  "  Wau-bun  ",  concerning  its  origin.  A  great  serpent,  living  in  the v.aters  of  the  Mississippi,  took  a  notion  to  visit  the  lakes;  he  left  his  trail whc-re  he  crossed  over  the  prairie,  which,  collecting  the  rains  as  they  fell  from licaven,  in  time  became  Fox  River  I  And,  that  lady  adds,  "the  little  lakes along  its  course  v.ere,  probably,  the  places  v/here  he  flourished  about  at  night in  his  uneasy  slumbers."
t  Nadioue-cious,  or  Xadous-sioux,  was  in  general  terms  a  woid  signifying enemies,  and  was  especially  applied,  by  all  the  v/estvvard  tribes,  to  the  Daco- tas  (as  the  latter  have  always  called  themselves);  and  by  common  custom  of v-'riters  in  later  times,  only  the  terminal  i)art  of  the  word,  Sioux,  is  used.
152  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
do  not  make  use  of  canoes;  for  this  reason  they  do  noi:  make war  upon  the  Iroquois,  ahhough  they  are  often  killed  by  them. They  are  very  much  disparaged,  and  reputed  by  other  nations  as penurious,  avaricious,  thievish,  and  quarrelsome.  They  have  a small  idea  of  the  French  since  two  traders  in  beaver-skins  have appeared  among  them.  If  they  had  conducted  themselves  there as  they  ought,  I  would  have  had  less  trouble  to  give  these  poor people  other  ideas  of  the  French  nation,  whom  they  began  to esteem  since  I  explained  to  them  the  principal  and  only  motive which  brought  me  among  them."'"
The  Foxes  and  Sacs  had  no  more  than  secured  a  firm  lodg- ment in  their  fortified  villages  in  Wisconsin,  until  we  find  their marauding  parties  stirring  up  mischief  in  every  direction.  One of  these,  October  28,  1679,  struck  LaSalle,  who,  on  his  voyage of  exploration  of  the  Mississippi,  had  navigated  the  western shore  of  Lake  Michigan,  and,  reaching  its  southern  extremity, was  comj)elled,  by  stress  of  weather,  to  land  his  canoes  upon  the sand-hills  not  a  gi-eat  way  east  of  South-Chicago.  LaSalle,  see- ing a  footprint,  enjoined  his  men  to  be  on  their  guard  and  to make  no  noise.  Says  Father  Hennepin  (who  is  the  historian  of this  expedition — from  the  time  of  its  organization  at  Fort  Fron- tenac,  as  Toronto,  Canada,  was  then  called,  in  the  fall  of  1678^ until  the  time  of  its  abandonment  at  the  foot  of  Peoria  Lake, Illinois,  early  in  January,  1680):  "All  of  our  men  obeyed  for  a time,  but  one  of  them,  perceiving  a  bear,  could  not  restrain  him- self from  firing  his  gun  at  the  animal,  which,  being  killed,  rolled from  top  to  bottom  of  the  mountain  [as  he  calls  the  sand-hill]  to the  very  foot  of  our  cabins.  The  report  of  the  gun  discovered to  us  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  Indians  of  the  nation  of  tlie Oiitonagamies,  living  near  the  extremity  of  the  Bay  of  the  Puant?, and  who  were  cabined  in  our  vicinity."  That  LaSalle,  to  guard against  surprises,  placed  a  sentinel  over  his  upturned  canoes, under  which  he  had  sheltered  his  goods  against  the  rain.     Not-
*  It  is  difficult  to  locate,  with  any  dei^ree  of  certainty,  the  site  of  the  forti- fied village  of  the  Foxes,  visited  by  Fatlier  Allouez.  From  the  statement  in his  journal  of  his  having  passed  through  several  of  the  lakes  or  expansions  of P'ox  River  before  reaching  the  town,  i!  may  be  assumed  tliat  it  was  situated not  a  great  v/ay  northeast  of  Portage.,.City,  and  pr()l>ab!y  in  Alar'juette  (.■ouriLv, Wisconsin.  It  could  not  liave  been  in  the  near  vicinity  of  the  I'ortage;  or else  the  Father's  journal — so  replete  v/ith  details  of  the  tofjography  of  tlie country  through  which  he  traveled,  as  well  that  laying  adjacent  to  his  route — would  have  contained  some  reference  to  the  Portage,  and,  more  than  all,  to- the  Wisconsin  River  flashmg  its  broad  current  onv^'ard  to  tlie  Mississippi.
THE    FOX    AND    SACS.  1 53
withstanding  these  precautions,  thirty  of  these  Foxes,  under  the dark  cover  of  a  rainy  night,  sneaked  along  on  their  beUies,  one behind  the  other,  making,  as  it  were,  a  chain  from  their  comrades- stationed  at  a  safe  distance  to  the  canoes,  from  which  they  passed their  stolen  plunder  backward  from  hand  to  hand.  The  negli- gent sentinel  linally  aroused  the  camp  to  arms;  which  stopped further  depletion  of  the  canoes.  The  rogues,  finding  themselves discovered,  their  spokesman  called  out  that  "  he  was  a  friend. ''' In  answer  he  was  told  "that  it  was  an  unseasonable  hour,  and that  people  did  not  come  in  that  way  by  night  except  to  steal  or kill  those  who  were  not  on  their  guard.  He  replied  that,  in  truths the  shot  that  had  been  fired  had  made  his  countrymen  all  think that  it  was  a  party  of  Iroquois,  their  enemies,  as  the  other  Indi- ans, their  neighbors,  did  not  use  such  fire-arms,  and  that  they had  accordingly  advanced  with  the  intent  of  killing  them ;  but having  discovered  that  they  were  Frenchmen,  whom  they  regarded as  their  brethren,  the  impatience  which  they  felt  to  see  them  had prevented  their  waiting  for  daylight  to  visit  us  and  to  smoke  in our  calumet  with  us,  which  is  the  ordinary  complement  of  these Indians  and  the  greatest  mark  of  affection."  Nothing  short  of LaSalle's  skilful,  prompt,  and  daring  measures  would  have  saved his  party  from  wholesale  robbery  and  total  destruction.  Feign- ing assurance  of  the  Foxes'  friendly  intentions,  until  morning,. when,  with  pistol  in  hand,  he  seized  one  of  their  braves,  and — through  another  whom  he  captured  and  released— notified  the band  that  he  would  kill  him  unless  restitution  of  the  stolen  pro- perty was  made.  The  Foxes  would  have  complied  on  the  spot^ but  for  the  dilemma  they  found  themselves  in  from  the  circum- stance that  among  the  property  taken  was  the  coat  of  LaSalle's attendant,  which  they,  in  making  a  fair  division  of  the  spoils,  had torn  in  pieces  and  cut  off  the  buttons.  Therefore  they  resolved to  rescue  their  comrade  at  the  hazard  of  a  fight.  They  advanced in  full  force  upon  the  camp  of  LaSalle,  who  boldly  went  out  to meet  them,  his  men  having  blankets  half  rolled  about  their  left arms  as  a  shield  against  their  enemies'  arrows.  The  savages wavered;  and  having  no  stomach  for  an  encounter  upon  a  fair field  in  the  glare  of  daylight,  a  parley  ensued.  They  agreed  tO' give  back  all  except  the  coat,  and  to  pay  for  that.
The  bad  name  of  the  Foxes  amoni)^  their  neicrhbors  clung  to- them  in  later  times;  and  Judge  James  Flail,  drawing  his  conclu- sions from  sources  reviewed  while  preparing  his  volumes  on  the North  American  Indians,  fitly  characterizes  them  as  "always  [the] restless  and  discontented  Ishrnaelites  of  the  lakes;  their  hand against  every  man,  and  every  man's  hand  against  them.''     Of  all
154  ILLINOIS    AND   INDIANA   INDIANS.
the  Western  Algonquin  tribes  they  alone  (and  their  immediate kinsman,  the  Kickapoos)  were  the  soHtary  exception,  in  their irreconcilable  enmit_v  toward  the  French,  who — barring  the  single instance  during  a  brief  interval  of  the  French  Colonial  War, where  twenty  Foxes  and  thirty- three  Sacs,  influenced,  probal)ly, out  of  motives  of  plunder,  or  a  personal  regard  for  the  Canadian traders  who  recruited  them,  assisted  in  the  capture  of  Forts George  and  William  Henry — had  no  permanent  peace  and  never any  alliance  with  them.  The  fur- trade  with  tribes  along  the upper  Mississippi  had  no  more  than  been  fairly  establislied,  until the  Foxes  effectually  blockaded  its  passage  through  their  country by  way  of  the  Fox  and  Wisconsin  Rivers,  by  far  the  most  feasible route,  and  compelled  the  coiwcurs  de  bois  to  take  the  more  cir- cuitous and  difficult  one  around  the  south  and  western  shore  of Lake  Superior.*
We  have  seen  from  official  documents  referred  to  in  the  chap- ter on  the  Kickapoost  that,  in  1694,  the  Foxes,  f^^aring  the  Sioux would  come  and  seize  their  village,  meditated  a  migration  to  the Wabash.  Three  years  later,  Aug.  29th,  1697,  M.  de  la  Motte Cadillac — illustrious  for  eminent  services  other  than  that  of  being the  layer  of  the  foundation  of  Fort  Ponchartrain,  in  1701,  in  the present  city  of  Detroit — arrived  at  Montreal,  with  several  canoes of  French  traders,  and  a  large  delegation  of  Indians  from  the upper  lakes,  whose  several  tribes  the  intendant  (as  the  French provincial  governor  was  called)  was  trying  to  induce  to  cease their  warfare  upon  each  other,  and  join  the  French  in  a  grand eftbrt  to  break  the  power  of  the  Iroquois,  the  dreaded  enemy  of all.  Four  days  later,  Cadillac  repaired  to  Quebec  with  the  prin- cipal chiefs,  and  ai)peared  with  them  before  the  intendant.  Count Frontenac.     Among  the  deputation  was  a  Fox,  who,  on  behalf  of
*  In  a  lengthy  resume  of  the  occurrences  in  Canada  in  1692-3  (and  of which  the  whole  of  tiie  Northwest  was  then  a  part),  the  crown  is  officially advised  that  "  Le  Sueur,  another  voyager  \coureiir  dc  bois  or  trader],  is  to remain  at  Chagouainigon,  and  to  endeavor  to  maintain  the  peace  lately  con- cluded between  the  Saulteurs  [/.<?.,  the  Ottawas  and  others  living  at  the  Sault de  Sainte  Marie]  and  the  Scioux. "  "This  is  of  the  greatest  consequence,  as  it is  now  \.\\i:t  sole  pass  by  which  access  can  be  had  to  the  latter  nation,  wdiose trade  is  very  profitable,  the  country  to.the  south  being  occupied  by  the  ]'"oxe •; and  the  Masscoutins,  who  have  already,  several  times,  plundered  the  French under  pretence  that  they  were  carrying  ammunition  to  the  Scioux,  their  an- cient enemies.  These  frequent  interruptions  would  have  been  punished  ere this,  had  we  not  been  occupied  elsewhere."
THE   FOX   AND    SACS.      -^      .  1 55
his  tribe,  addresses  the  intendant  thus:  "What  shall  I  say  to  ray father?  I  have  come  all  naked  to  see  him;  I  can  give  no  assist- ance; the  Sioux  ties  my  arms;  I  kill  him  because  he  beqan; father,  be  not  angry  with  me  for  doing  so.  I  liave  come  here only  to  hear  you  and  execute  your  will."'  To  which  Count  Fron- tenac  replies:  "Fox!  I  now  speak  to  you.  Your  young  men have  no  sense.  You  have  a  bad  heart,  and  mine  was  beginnmg to  be  worse  disposed  than  yours,  liad  you  not  come  to  hear  my word  and  do  my  will.  1  had  resolved  to  send  M.  de  la  r\Iotte [Cadillac]  with  a  party  of  my  young  men  on  a  visit  to  your  vil- lage; and  that  would  have  been  unfortunate,  for,  no  doubt,  your women  and  children  \\'ould  ha\'e  been  frightened  by  them.  ■■'  "''■  '■' I  am  not  willing  you  should  return  home  naked,  as  you  would  have probably  done  if  you  had  not  come  to  see  me.  '•'  '''  ''"  Here are  some  guns,  powder,  and  ball  that  I  give  you.  Make  good use  of  them;  not  in  killing  your  allies;  not  in  killing  buffalo  or deer;  but  in  killing  the  Iroquois,  who  is  in  much  greater  want  of powder  and  iron  [meaning  guns,  hatchets,  knives,  and  other implements  manufactured  from  this  metal].  Remember,  it  is 7iV7;' alone  that  causes  true  men  to  be  distinguished;  and  that  it is  aiving  to  war  that  I,  this  da}-,  Vwow  you  by  your  name.  Noth- ing gives  me  greater  pleasure  than  to  see  the  face  of  a  warrior. Here  is  what  I  give  you,  and  you  can  now  depart  as  soon  as you  please."  After  the  presents  had  been  distributed,  Frontenac added:  "No  more  ])owder  and  iron  will  be  conveyed  to  the Sioux;  and  if  my  young  men  {i.e.,  subordinates,  traders]  carry any  thither,  I  will  punish  them  severely."'-'
'I'he  Fox  and  Sacs  were  blamed  as  being  the  principals  who induced  British  traders  to  come  up  the  lakes;  and  their  hatred was  the  more  inflamed  toward  the  French  because  the  latter,  in 1 701,  erected  a  permanent  garrison  on  the  Detroit  River  in  order,
*  In  the  diplomacy  of  words,  uttered  to  disguise  rather  than  to  express,  the true  sentiments  of  the  speakers,  the  honors  between  the  Indian  and  the Frenchman  were  even.  There  was  no  sincerity  in  either.  Indeed,  we  are informed,  further  on  in  the  document  from  which  these  speeches  are  taken, that  Frontenac,  expecting  no  peace  with  them,  was  merely  talking  to  gain time  to  withdraw  hir.  traders  out  of  the  reach  of  the  Foxes,  having  already revolved  not  to  send  aiiy  more  goods-. to  their  country.  The  war  with  the Sioux  was  a  circumstance  from  which  the  spokesman  of  the  Foxes  could frame  a  pretext  for  their  declining  to  let  their  enemies  nearer  home,  alone,  to join  in  a  war  upon  the  Iroquois;  and  had  there  been  no  war  at  his  cabin doors,  the  wiley  speaker  would  have  as  readily  framed  some  other  excuse,  for the  conduct  of  his  [)Cople,  in  its  stead.
:/
156  ILLINOIS   AND   INDIANA   INDIANS.
among  other  reasons,  to  shut  those  traders  out.  For  several years  after,  their  busy  marauding  bands  infested  the  coast  Hne  of northern  Ohio  and  eastern  oNIichigan,  from  the  Maumee  to  I-akc Huron;  intercepting  the  postal-route  communication  with  "the IlHnois  country;''  plundering  French  traders;  and  harassing  the French  settlement,  then  crystallizing  about  the  fort  at  Detroit. Affairs  ^yent  on  at  this  rate  for  ten  or  eleven  years,  until  17  12, when  the  Foxes  and  their  brethren,  the  Kickapoos  and  embold- ened Mascoutins,  by  the  war  between  England  and  France, massed  their  warriors  for  the  purpose  of  capturing  Detroit  and driving  the  French  out  of  the  country.  And  they  would  have succeeded  but  for  the  timely  arrival  of  Indian  allies,  who  hastened to  the  succor  of  the  beleaguered  garrison.  What  terrible  retribu- tion befell  the  aggressors  in  this  attack  is  shown  in  that  part  of the  French  commander's  report  already  quoted.  Father  Charle- voix, in  his  "History  of  New  France",'''  says:  "They  [the  Iro- quois] had  shortly  before  [1711]  raised  up  against  us  a  new enemy  as  brave  as  themselves,  less  politic,  much  fiercer,  Avhom we  have  never  been  able  to  tame  or  subdue;  and  who,  like  those insects  that  seem  to  have  as  many  lives  as  parts  of  their  body, spring  to  life  again,  so  to  say,  after  their  defeat,  and  reduced almost  to  a  handful  of  brigands,  appear  everywhere,  aroused  the hatred  of  all  the  nations  on  this  continent,  and,  for  the  last tventy-five  years  and  more,  have  interrupted  commerce,  and  ren- dered the  roads  almost  impracticable  for  more  than  five  hundred leagues  around.  These  are  the  Outagamis,  or  commonly  caheci the  F'oxes.  *  '^  *  They  had  recently  confederated  with  Iro- quois, and  had  apparently,  through  thehi,  just  formed  an  alliance with  the  British.  They  had  promised  the  latter  to  burn  the  tort of  Detroit,  to  massacre  all  the  French,  and  introduce  Britisii troops  into  the  fort,"'  etc.  Charlevoix  then  describes  the  siege and  its  results,  after  which  he  says:  "However,  the  Outagamis incensed  rather  than  subdued  by  the  severe  loss  sustained  ai Detroit  in  17 12,  infested  with  robberies  and  filled  with  murders not  only  the  neighborhood  of  The  Bay  [Green  Hay],  their  natu- ral territory,  but  almost  all  the  routes  communicating  with  the remote  colonial  posts,  as  well  as  those  leading  from  Canada  lo Louisiana.     Except  the  Sioux,  who  often  joined  them,  and  the
*  We  quote  from  this  most  extended  anrl  autlientic  history  of  the  colojiiza- tion  of  the  French  upon  the  North  American  coiitinen!.  evt-r  published,  and only  recently  (in  1S71)  translated  into  the  lvnL,disli  lani:,aiage  by  Prof.  John Gilmary  .Shea,  whose  addition  of  copious  foot-notes  to  the  text  has  greatly enhanced  its  value.
THE   FOX    AND    SACS.  '       .     1 57
Iroquois,  with  whom  they  had  formed  an  alHance  but  who  did not  seem  to  help  them,  at  least  openly,  all  the  nations  in  com- merce with  us  suffered  greatly  from  their  hostilities;  and  there was  reason  to  fear  that,  unless  a  remedy  was  promptly  applied, most  of  them  would  make  terms  with  these  Indians  to  our  detri- ment. This  induced  the  Marquis  de  Vaudreuil  [governor-gen- eral of  New  France]  to  propose  to  the  neighboring  tribes  that  they should  join  him  in  exterminating  the  common  enemy.  All  con- sented, and  the  general  raised  a  party  of  Frenchmen,  assigning the  command  to  Louvigny,  who  was  then  the  king's  lieuten- ant at  Quebec.  ^Nlany  Indians  joijied  this  commandant  on  the route,  and  he  soon  found  himself  at  the  head  of  eight  hundred men,  firmly  resolved  not  to  lay  down  their  arms  as  long  as  an Outagamie  was  left  in  Canada.  All  supposed  that  tribe  on  the brink  of  utter  destruction;  and  the  tribe  itself  judged  so  too, when  it  saw  the  storm  gathering  against  it,  and  they  only  thought of  selling  their  lives  as  dearly  as  possible."
We  here  leave  off  Charlevoix's  account,  and  quote  from  M.  de Louvigny's  official  report  of  the  action,  which,  lor  the  first  time, appears  printed  in  a  late  volume  of  the  "'Wisconsin  Historical Collections''.
On  reaching  the  principal  fortified  town  of  the  Foxes — a •Stronghold  on  Fox  River,  Wisconsin,  and  located,  according  to Judge  Wm.  H.  Smitli  of  that  State,  at  Butte  des  Morts,  or  hill  ot the  dead — a  theory,  too,  that  is  supported  by  several  traditions of  the  Foxes  themselves;  and,  says  Fouvigny,  "after  three  days of  open  trenches,  sustained  by  a  continuous  fire  of  fusileers,  with two  pieces  of  cannon  and  a  grenade  mortar,  they  were  reduced to  ask  for  peace,  although  they  had  five  hundred  warriors  in  the fort,  who  fired  briskly,  and  more  than  three  thousand  women; they  also  expected  shortly  a  reinforcement  of  three  hundred men.  But  the  promptness  with  which  my  otficers  pushed  for- ward the  trenches  that  I  had  opened  at  only  seventy  yards  from the  fort,  made  the  enemy  fear,  the  third  night,  that  they  would be  taken.  As  I  was  now  only  twenty-four  yards  from  their  fort, my  aim  was  to  reach  their  triple-oak  stakes  by  a  ditch  of  a  foot and  a-half  in  the  rear.  Perceiving  very  well  that  my  balls  had not  the  effect  I  anticipated,  I  decided  to  take  the  place  at  the first  outset,  and  to  explode  two  mines  under  their  curtains.  The boxes  being  in  place  for  this  purpose,  I  did  not  listen  to  the  ene- mies' first  proi)osition.  'J'hey  having  made  a  second  one,  I  sub- mitted it  to  my  allies,  who  consented  to  it  on  the  conditions:  that the  Foxes  and  t/uir  allies  would  make  peace  with  all  Indians who  are  submissive  to  the  king,  and  with  whom  the  French  are
15S  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.  i.-'"-
engaged  in  trade.  I'hat  they  would  return  to  me  all  the  French prisoners  that  they  have,  and  those  captured  durini;-  the  v/ar  from all  our  allies  (all  which  was  complied  with  immediately).  That they  would  take  slaves  from  distant  nations  and  dehver  them  to our  allies  to  replace  their  dead.  That  they  would  hunt  to  pay the  expenses  of  this  war.  And,  as  a  security  for  keeping  their word,  they  were  required  to  deliver  me  six  of  their  chiefs,  or  chil- dren of  chiefs,  as  hostages,  until  the  entire  execution  of  our treaty;  which  they  did,  and  I  took  them  with  me  to  Quebec."'
Having  already  occupied  more  s])ace  than  is  allotted  to  the Fox  and  Sacs,  we  forbear  further  quotations  from  authorities  and copies  of  official  manuscripts  at  hand  to  show  tlie  troublesome relations  between  them  and  the  French  colonies  for  the  following fifty  years;  but  from  these  sources  of  information  we  summarize the  statement  that  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  were  far  from  being  either subdued  or  exterminated;  that,  in  17 18,  they  had  gained  a  lirm footing  upon  Rock  River,  Illinois ;  and  four  years  later,  without yielding  their  hold  of  the  territory  conquered  in  Vv'isconsin. they  and  the  Kickapoos  and  jNIascoutins  had  driven  the  last  rem- nants of  the  Illinois  tribes  south  beyond  the  Illinois,  leaving nothing  to  check  their  raids  along  that  river,  and  rendering  com- munication between  the  lower-Mississippi  settlements  a]-)d  those of  Canada  almost  impracticable.  Black  Hawk  says  ihe  Sacs and  Foxes  "were  driven,  by  the  combined  forces  of  their  ene- mies, to  the  Wisconsin.  They  remained  there  some  time,  until a  party  of  their  young  men  (who  had  descended  Rock  River  to its  mouti])  returned  and  made  a  favorable  report  of  the  country; when  they  all  descended  Rock  Ri\'er,-'  drove  the  Kas-kas-kias from  the  country,  and  commenced  the  erection  of  a  village [shortly  above  Rock  Island]  determined  never  to  leave  it;  and at  this  village  I  was  born,"'  etc.
It  may  be  incjuircd  how  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  repaired  tlie  in- ces.sant  drain  on  th>jir  numbers  caused  by  their  constant  wars east,  west,  and  south  against  neighboring  tribes,  who  always  had .the  moral  support  and  often  the  direct  assistance  of  the  French. Their  polygamous  practices  would  aid  only  in  a  degree;  while  the real  explanation  will  be  found  in  their  custom — borrowed,  per- haps, from  their  friends,  the  Iroquois — of  adopting  their  prisoners of  war,  and  incorporating  them_ijito  their  tribe,  instead  of  killing
*  In  the  Al:,'onquiii  Usin-e  [stony]  Sce-be  [river],  meaning  the  rocky  river, and  designated  on  early  French  maps  as  "A'/z/ew  dc  la  Roch  ",  which  has  the same  sicrnification.
THE    FOX    AND    SACS.  ■  1 59
or  making   women   [slaves]   of   them,   as   was    the  general    rule among  other  Indians."
Having  taken  no  hand  in  the  border  wars  that  began  westward of  the  AUeghanys  with  the  near  close  of  the  Revolutionary  War, and  ended  with  Gen.  AVayne's  victory  over  the  confederated tribes  at  Maumee  rapids  in  1794,  the  Sacs  and  Foxes  were  not represented  at  the  resulting  treaty  of  Greenville  the  following year.  Previous  to  this,  they  had  subdued  the  lowas,  and  incor- porated them  in  their  own  tribe,  and  extended  their  domain  up the  Des  Moines  River  in  the  present  State  of  Iowa;  thence northwestwardly,  says  Judge  Hall,  "beyond  Council  Bluffs  and into  the  immense  prairies  periodically  visited  by  the  buffalo.'' They  claimed  the  country  for  a  distance  on  both  sides  of  the Mississippi  from  Rock  River  up  to  Prairie-du-Chien,  v/hich  in- cluded all  the  valuable  mines  of  lead  ore  in  that  region.  The principal  village  of  the  Foxes  was  at  Dubuque's  mine,  some seventy-five  miles  below  the  former  place.  They  had  another  at Rock -River  rapids;  while,  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Mississippi, near  the  foot  of  the  island  (known  as  Rock  Island),  was  a  village of  "Foxes  and  Sacs,  living  promiscuously  together;  it  being  (says Schoolcraft,  writing  in  1820)  one  of  the  largest  and  most  popu- lous Indian  villages  on  the  continent."
From  these  villages  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  warred  upon  the nadons  to  the  west,  ]\irticularly  the  Great  and  Little  Osages, against  whom  they  waged  a  contest  that  would  have  been  one  of extermination  had  not  the  United  States  authorities,  through Gov.  Wm.  H.  Harrison,  interfered  and  put  a  stop  to  it.  In 181 1,  when  the  Indian  disturbances,  egged  on  by  Tecumthe  and his  followers,  foreshadowed  the  war  declared  by  the  United  States against  Great  Britain  the  following  year,  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  sent a  committee  of  their  chiefs  to  \Vashington  City  to  offer  the  ser- vices of  their  tribe  to  President  Madison;  and  wht-n  the  war  had actually  begun,  they  sent  a  second  delegation  to  St.  Fouis,  and again  tendered  their  warriors  to  the  Government.  \Vhile  these offers  were  politely  declined,  as  it  was  decided,  at  that  time,  not
*  Wan-e-bca  Na-mo-eta  (Spinning  Top),  a  Sac,  whose  village,  in  1823, was  upon  the  Pek-tan-non  (meaning,  in  tlie  Sac  dialect,  muddy),  as  the  Peek- a-ton-o-kee  River,  a  tributary  of  Kock_  River,  was  called  by  the  Foxes  and Sacs,  stated  to  Maj.  Long  that  in  his  estimate  his  tribe  enumerated  nearly one  thousand  able-bodied  and  middle-aged  men;  that  not  more  than  two  hun- dred of  these  were,  in  his  opinion,  of  pure  .Sac  extraction;  while  the  others were  principally  of  a  foreign  stock  obtained  in  the  way  we  have  stated.  Vide "Ixjng's  Expedition  to  the  Source  of  the  St.  Peters  River."
l60  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.  '■  :'■    .
to  employ  such  auxiliaries,  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  were  sorely  puz- zled to  comprehend  how  a  fight  should  be  going  on  without  their taking  a  hand  in  it.  Divided  councils  ensued;  a  majority,  mainly Foxes,  remained  neutral,  while^a  brigade  estimated  at  from  two to  four  hundred,  mostly  Sacs,  easily  seduced  by  the  presents  and promises  of  Robt.  Dickson,''"  went  over  to  the  British.  They were  commanded  by  the  Sac  chief,  Ma-ka-tia-me-she  Kia-kiak, — the  Black  Sparrow-Hawk,  abbreviated,  througli  common  consent, to  Black  Hawk — whom  Col.  Dickson  commissioned  as  a  general in  the  military  services  of  his  king.  From  these  circumstances this  division  of  the  Foxes  and  Sacs  were  afterward  known  as  the ''British  haud'\
The  writer  has  neither  the  space  or  desire  now  or  here  to  nar- rate occurrences  relating  to  the  so-called  Black-Hawk  War  of 1832.  That  war  and  the  events  that  lead  up  to  it  are  given  by ■several  authors,  whose-volumes  are  easily  accessible  to  the  inquir- ing reader.t     At  the  conclusion  of  this  war,  the  Foxes  and  Sacs,
*  A  subject  of  Great  Britain,  and  a  fur-trader,  whose  depot  of  supplies  was at  Prairie  du  Chien.  For  many  years  before,  without  warrant  or  authority, he  trafficked  within  tlie  acknowledged  boundaries  of  the  United  States  along the  upper  Mississippi,  where,  it  seems,  lie  was  as  industriously  engaged,  all the  while,  in  distributing  British  flags  and  medals  of  King  George. III.  among the  Indians  as  he  was  in  collecting  peltries.  This  pernicious  practice  kept alive  in  their  untutored  breasts  their  love  for  their  "British  father  across  the big  water",  and  fanned  their  hatred  of  the  "Americans  who  had  thrown  him on  his  back."  The  seed  of  liis  teachings  was  all  too  ripe  for  the  harvest when  the  war  broke  out.  lie  visited  all  the  tribes  on  the  Mississippi  and Illinois  rivers  and  tlieir  tributaries,  from  I'rairie  du  Chien  to  Green  Bay; and,  early  in  June,  1813,  had  collected,  at  tlie  ruins  of  Lort  DearV)orn  (now Chicago),  a  horde  numbering  nearly  one  thousand  of  the  most  cruel  and abandoned  desperadoes  he  could  find.  From  Chicago  he  led  them  in  separ- ate bodies  to  Detroit  and  Maiden,  and  turned  them  over  to  Gen.  Proctor; and  the  latter  sought  in  vain  to  find  a  gap  in  Gov.  Harrison's  lines  through which  lie  might  hurl  these  fiends  upon  our  border  settlements.  Instead  of finding  the  promised  cabins  to  liurn,  children  to  brain,  and  women  to  disem- bowel, they  vsere  confronted  everywhere  by  ))ien  armed  with  guns  and  bayo- nets. A  few  months'  campaigning  against  such  implements  of  war,  and  their thirst  for  the  blood  of  defenceless  victims  waned;  they  deserted  in  squads  of from  three  to  a  score  in  number,  and  started  back  to  their  several  countries, cursing,  as  they  journeyed,  the  name  of  Dickson,  who  had  so  wofully  deceived them,
t  Brow^n's  and  Ford's  "History  of  Illinoi,",  Gale's  "Upper  Mississippi", and  Dr.  Benj.  Drake's  "Lift;  of  Black   Hawk".     The  more  rare,  miscellane-
THE   FOX    AND    SACS.  ,•.:-■.;"•  ;  l6l
by  the  treaty  made  Sept.  21  si,  1832,  at  Rock  Island,  ceded  all their  lands  along  the  Mississippi,  covering  nearly  the  whole  east- ern half  of  Iowa  and  a  large  tract  of  country  on  the  east  side  of that  river  not  embraced  in  previous  treaties;  further  agreeing  to leave  them  and  to  quit  hunting  and  fishing  upon  them  after  the June  then  next  following.  Tliis  treaty  opened  the  door  to  a  press of  emigration,  whose  daily  swelling  volume  quickly  poured  itself -across  the  Mississippi  into  Iowa,  and  spread  the  newly-acquired domain  with  golden  fields,  fragrant  orchards,  happy  cottage-homes, nestled  amid  shady  groves,  churches,  and  school-houses,  and other  evidences  of  the  highest  type  of  civilization.  Still  the hardy  emigrant  from  tlie  elder  States '■'  required  more  room:  and by  subsequent  treaties,  in  1S37  and  1842,  the  Foxes  and  Sacs, and  other  tribes  that  may  ha\e  claimed  any  title,  the  whole  coun- try to  the  Missouri  River  was  given  up  to  him.  The  sounding axe  is  again  heard  everywhere;  everywhere  is  seen  the  straining team  turning  up  the  tough  prairie-sod;  and  on  jiarch  3d,  1845, Iowa,  said  to  mean  in  the  Algonquin  language.  "■  tJie  beautiful Jaud",  became  a  State,  the  fifteenth  of  the  sisterhood  admitted under  the  federal  constitution.
After  the  treaty  of  1842,  the  Mississi[)pi  bands  of  the  Foxes and  Sacs  were  placed  on  a  reservation  of  435,200  acres  located on  the  Osage  River;  while  the  Missouri  l)and  wns  placed  on  the south  side  of  Xe-ma-ha  River,  near  the  northea;  t  corner  of  Kan- sas. They  of  the  Kansas  agency,  in  1865,  raised  7500  bushels of  corn,  and  owned  1700  horses;  and  the  estimated  value  of their  personal  effects  was  $71,910.     By  the  enumeration  of  their
ous  and  historical  writini^s  of  Judge  Jas.  Hall;  the  statements  of  Col.  Thos. Forsyth  (preserved  in  Mrs.  Kinzie's  "Wau-lnin",  and  who,  for  many  years prior  to  1830,  was  a  trader  or  United  States  Indian  agent  among  the  f^oxes and  Sacs)  contain  many  interesting  facts,  as  does  Black  Hawk's  account  of his  own  life;  while  the  publications  of  the  Wisconsin  Historical  Society  of Wisconsin  abound  with  crude  material  upon  the  same  subject.  When  the variant  biases  and  prejudices  of  the  respective  writers  shall  have  been  elimi- nated from  tliese  and  other  sources  of  information,  and  a  fair  average  of  truth is  formed  from  the  residuum,  it  will  show  .that  the  manner  in  which  the  treaty of  1804,  f^r  die  cession  of  a  large  body  of  lands  of  the  P\)xes  and  .Sacs  east  of tlie  Mississippi,  including  Black  Hawk's  ancient  village,  was  negotiated, reflects  little  credit  for  fair  dealing  on  the"  part  of  the  dominant  race;  while the  manner  in  which  the  war  was  conducted,  that  arose  out  of  conllicting  con- structions of  this  treaty,  reflects  still  less  upon  their  miliiary  fame.
*  There  was  little  of  the  foreign  element  in  the  early  settlement  of  Iowa  as compared  with  the  native.
1 62  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
♦
numbers  taken  the  same  year,  there  were  364  inen  and  441 Avomen  of  the  Mississippi  band  in  Kansas,  and  only  44  men  aud 51  women  of  the  Missouri  band  remaining  on  tlie  Xemaha.  ft' the  census  taker  had  gone  further  west  out  upon  the  great  ]jlains toward  the  foot-liiils  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  he  would,  doubt- less, have  found  many  more,  engaged  there  in  hunting  and  fight- ing, the  employment  of  men,  instead  of  hoeing  corn,  a  drudgery, according  to  their  ethics,  fit  only  to  be  endured  by  women.
Judge  Hall,  who  enjoyed  a  long  and  extended  personal  acquaint- ance with  this  people,  says:  "The  I'^oxes  and  Sacs  are  remark- able for  the  symmetry  of  their  form  and  tine  personal  appearance. Few  of  the  tribes  resemble  them  in  these  particulars;  still  fewcr equal  their  intrepidity.  They  are,  physically  and  morally,  among the  most  striking  of  their  race.  Their  history  abounds  with  dar- ing and  desperate  adventures  and  romantic  incidents  far  beyond the  usual  course  of  Indian  exertion."
THE    POTTA\VATOMIES.
This  people  was  one  of  the  three  subdix'sions  of  the  Ojibbe- ways,  a  numerous  tamily  of  the  Algonquin  tribes,  the  other  two members,  and  of  whom  it  is  not  the  ])resent  [)urpose  to  write. being  the  Chippeways,  or  Ojibbeways,  who  retained  the  family name,  and  the  Ottaways.  From  causes,  not  liere  necessary  to name,  they  early  became  separated;  and,  in  the  progress  of  time. the  Chippewa) s  extended  themselves  westward  and  south  of  Lake Superior  to  the  eastward  sources  of  the  Upper  Mississippi  River. The  Ottaways  spread  south  to  Grand  River,  in  the  State  of  Michi- gan, down  the  western  extremity  of  Take  Krie,  and  for  quite  a distance  up  the  Maumee  River  (one  of  the  early  names  by  which that  stream  was  known  was  the  Ottaway):  while  the  Pottawato- mies  advanced  by  way  of  the  islands  at  the  entrance  of  ( h-een Bay  to  the  south  into  the  country  along  the  west  shore  of  Lake Michigan.  That  these  three  tribes  were  originally  one  people  is evidenced,  says  Mr.  Schoolcraft,  in  that  one  of  his  journals  en- titled, "The  CeJitral  Mississippi  A'alley,"  derives  additional  "weiglit from  their  general  resemblance  in  person,  manners,  customs,  and dress,  but,  above  all,  by  their  having  one  council-fire  and  si)eaking one  language.  Still  there  are  obvious  characteristics  which  will induce  an  observer,  after  a  general  acquaintance,  to  [jronouncc
(!")
164  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
In  the  writings  left  by  early  French  autb-ors.  ihe  word  Potta- watomies  was  spelled,  as  is  the  case  v.'ith  the  names  of  other tribes,  to  suit  the  arbitrary  tastes  of  the  various  authors.  Some of  the  forms  are  Poutouatimi,  Pouotatamis,  Poutouamies,  PouU- watamis,  Pautawattamies,  Pouttewatamies,  Pottawattamies,  and Poux.  The  tribe  was  divided  into  four  clans:  the  golden-carp, the  frog,  the  crab,  and  the  tortoise.
Unlike  the  Illinois,  Miamis,  and  several  others,  the  Pottawa- tomies  were  not  divided  into  separate  tribes,  but  their  different bands  v.-ould  separate  and  unite  according  to  the  abundarice  or scarcity  of  game,  or  the  emergencies  of  war.  The  name  Potta- watomie, in  their  own  language  signifies  7cc  are  making  a  Jirc: and  for  the  origin  of  which  Joseph  Barron,  (iOv.  Harrison's  In dian  interpreter,  related  to  Prof.  AV.  H.  Keating,  at  Fort  Wayne, Ind.,  in  1824,  this  tradition:  "A  Miami.  Iiaving  wandered  out from  his  cabin,  met  three  Indians  whose  language  Avas  unintelli- gible to  hip-;:  hx  signs  and  motions  he  invited  them  to  follovr  him to  his  cabin,  where  they  v\-ere  hospitably  entertained,  and  where they  remained  until  dark.  During  the  night,  tv.o  of  the  strange Indians  stole  from  the  hut,  while  their  comrade  and  the  host  nere asleep.  They  took  a  few  embers  from  the  cabin,  and  placing  iliese near  the  door  of  the  hut,  they  made  a  tire,  which,  being  afterward seen  by  the  Miami  and  his  remaining  guest,  was  understood  to imply  a  council-fire  between  the  two  nations.  From  this  circum- stance the  Miami  called  them,  in  his  language,  Wa-ho-na-ha.  or tire-makers,  which.  Ijeing  translated  into  the  other  language,  ]>ro- duced  the  term  l)y  which  the  Pottawatomies  have  ever  since btren  distinguished,  and  the  ])ronunciation  of  which,  as  spoken  b^■ themselves,  is  Po-ta-wa-to-me,  in  their  language,  //r  arc  naking a  fuc.^
i^oUawatomies,  as  Massas  has  spoken  in  the  name  of  the  Three  Tires,  oj -ichich  we  are  one.  "'  *  *  It  is  two  years  since  I  as.<is:;ed  at  the  trcnty  of ^  incennes  (referring  to  the  treaty  conchidcd  at  tliat  place  by  Gen.  Ru.^u- !*utnam,  and  the  several  Wabash  River  and  Illinois  tribes,  Sept.  27th,  179.% nearly  three  instead  of  two  years  before  the  treaty  at  Greenville);  my  voice then  represented  the  Three  Fires:'    ■
Majur  Long's  Expedition  to  tlie  Sources  of  tlie  St.  I'eter's  River  ".  rrof Keating  adds  a  foot-note  to  the  effect  that  the  a!)Ove  li.ault!on  v.\is  larvatC'l to  liim  by  the  Indian  "agent's  interpreter,  Mr.  Josepli  I'.arron,  a  man  v>  ho-e long  residence  among  the  Indians,  extensive  acnuaintance  ^vith  tlicir  chaiacter, together  with  liis  unimpeachable  veracity,  confer  mucli  value  upon  all  th(- in'ormalion  obtained  from  him."  Joseph  Barron  for  many  )'cars  Avas  the n'erpreter,  friend,  and  constant   companion  of  ( icn.  Harrison  during  al!  his
THE    POTTAW ATOMIES.  1 65
The  first  mention  we  find  of  the  Pottawatomies  is  in  the  "Jesuit Relations''  for  the  years  1639-40;  where  they  are  referred  to  as  a tribe  dwelnng  beyond  the  River  St.  Lawrence,  and  to  the  north of  Lake  Huron.  Twenty-six  or  seven  years  later,  in  1666,  in  the journal  of  Father  AUouez,  as  preserved  in  the  "Jesuit  Relations'', they  are  described  as  "a  people  whose  country  is  about  the  lake of  the  Ill-i-mouek,  a  great  lake  that  has  not  come  to  our  knowl- edge, adjoining  the  lake  of  tlie  Hurons  and  that  of  the  Puants [Green  Bay],  between  the  east  and  the  south."'''  "They  are  a warlike  people,  hunters  and  fishers.  Their  country  is  good  for Indian-corn,  of  which  they  plant  fields,  and  to  which  they  repair to  avoid  the  famines  that  are  too  frequent  in  these  quarters.  Tlicy are  in  the  highest  degree  idolaters,  attached  to  ridiculous  fables, and  devoted  to  polygamy.  ''^  "  '■'  Of  all  the  people  that  I have  associated  with  in  these  countries,  tlicy  are  the  most  docile and  affectionate  toward  the  Frencli.  Their  wives  and  daughters are  more  reserved  than  those  of  other  nations.  They  have  a  kind of  civility  among  them,  and  make  it  quite  apparent  to  strangers, which  is  very  rare  among  our  barbarians."
The  Pottawatomies  formed  an  early  attachment  to  the  French
official  career,  as  Governor  of  the  Indiana  Territory  and  Commander  of  the military-  forces  of  the  Northwest,  in  the  war  of  1 81 2,  assistinj^,  as  interpreter, at  all  of  the  treaties  conducted  by  Gov.  Harrison,  and  acting  as  spy,  guide, and  confidential  n^es^enger  in  the  many  perilous  movements  of  his  principal, during  these  times  of  troublesome  Indian  difficulties.  He  was  a  native  P'rench- man,  of  Detroit,  and  died  July  31,  1S43,  ^i-  the  home  of  his  son,  on  the Wabash,  near  Logansport,  Indiana.
*  In  the  "Relations",  for  tlie  same  year,  Lake  Michigan  is  again  referred  to as  "Lake  Ill-e-aouers,"  and  "Lake  lll-i-ni-oues,  as  yet  unexplored;  '■  * and  that  the  Fox  Indians  call  it  Match-i-hi-gan-ing. "  Father  Hennepin, writing  at  a  period  some  thirteen  years  later,  in  1679,  when  its  general  coast- line had  become  better  a-,certained,  says:  "The  lake  is  called  by  the  Indian.-* lU-i-nouck,  and  by  the  French  Illinois,  and  adds  in  the  same  paragraph  that 'it  is  called  by  the  Miamis  Misch-i-gon-ong,  that  is,  the  Great  I,ake. '  I''ather Marest,  in  his  letter  written  from  Ka^kaskia,  lllinoi.^,  Nov.  9,  1 7 12,  and which  has  become  famous  on  acci^unt  (>f  the  valuable  historical  matter  it  con- tains, drops  the  6'//^'' (the  place  of)  and  contracts  the  wortl  to  Mic/n'i^an,  and  is, perhaps,  the  first  writer  who  ever  s[)elled  "it-  in  the  v\ay  that  has  become  uni- versal. He  naively  says  that  "on  the  maps  this  lake  has  the  name,  without any  authority,  of  the  'Lake  of  the  Illinois,'  since  the  Illinois  do  not  dwell  in its  neighborhood,"  The  name  is  derived  from  the  two  Algonquin  words,  Micli-i (Missi  or  Missi),  which  signifies  great,  as  it  does  also  several  or  many;  and  Sag- ay-i-gan,  a  lake.  —  Vide  "Henry's  Travels."
?CN!
l66  ILLINOIS    AXD    INDLAXA    TXDLANS.
that  remained  i!nl)rokeii  througli  all  the  vicissitudes  of  good  and bad  fortune  attendant  upon  their  exploration  and  attempted  hold- ing of  the  great  Northwest.  This  friendshij)  was  so  uniform  and reliable  that  thePottawatomies  figure  mucli  less  in  official  docu- ments than  the  Miamies,  the  Foxes,  or  other  erratic  tribes  witli whom  the  French  had  to  do.  Whatever  speculations  might  arise as  to  what  these  latter  might  do,  no  concern  was  had  as  to  the Pottawatomie;  he  was  always  ready  to  bloody  his  hatchet  on the  enemies  of  his  Father's  children,  the  French,  be  they  white P)ritishers,  or  red  natives  of  his  own  race.  While  Nicholas Perrot  was  on  his  way  from  Saulte  de  Ste.  Mary  to  the  head  of Green  Bay,  in  1671,  engaged  in  notifying  the  several  nations  to meet  St.  Lusson,  the  king's  deputy  at  the  former  place,  and  hear the  king's  will,  and  give  their  assent  to  the  act  of  taking  formal possession  of  the  country,  the  Pottawatomies  supplied  Perott with  an  escort  of  tlieir  braves,  as  he  passed  one  of  their  villages on  the  east  shore  of  Green  Pay,  to  ensure  his  safety,  the  route being  considered  dangerous  on  account  of  a  threatened  war between  the  Sioux  and  tlie  rvlascoutins.  As  Perott  api)roached the  village  of  the  ^liamis.  he  sent  forward  a  troop  of  young  men from  his  escort  to  announce  his  arrival.  Tlie  great  Miami  chief, Te-tin-choua,  wished  to  "give  the  envoy  of  tlie  general  of  the French  a  reception  that  would  attest  his  own  power.  He  sent  out a  detachment  to  meet  him,  giving  it  orders  to  receive  him  in  mili- tary style.  The  detachment  advanced  in  battle  order,  all  the braves  adorned  with  feathers,  armed  at  all  points,  uttering  war-cries, from  time  to  time.  Tiie  Pouteouataniis  who  escorted  Perrot, seeing  them  come  in  this  guise,  prepared  to  receive  them  in  the same  manner,  and  l^jrrot  put  himself  at  their  head.  When  the two  troops  were  in  flice  of  each  other,  they  stopped  as  if  to  take breath,  then  all  at  once  Perrot's  took  the  right,  the  Miamis  the left,  all  running  in  Indian  file,  as  though  they  wished  to  gain an  advantage  to  charge.  Put  the  Miami.s,  wheeling  in  the  form of  an  arc,  the  Pouteouatamis  were  invested  on  all  sides.  Then Doth  uttered  loud  yells,  which  were  the  signal  for  a  kind  of  a combat.  The  Miamis  fired  a  volley  from  their  guns,  which  were loaded  only  with  jjowder,  and  the  Pouteouatamis  returned  it  in the  same  way;  after  this  they  closed,  tomahawk  in  hand,  all  the blows  being  received  on  the  tomalnnvk.  Peace  was  then  made  : the  Miamis  presented  the  calumet  to  Perrot,  and  led  him  with  all his  escort  into  the  ciu'ef  town,  where  the  great  chief  assigned  hini a  guard  of  fifty  men,  and  regaled  him  splendidly  after  the  custom of  the  country."'-'
*  Charlevoix's  "Nev/  Franco."
THE    rOTTAWATCJMIES.  1 6/
Prior  to  1670,  the  Pottawatomies  had  collected  upon  the islands  in  Lake  ^Michigan  lying  westward  of  the  Straits  of  iVIacki- nac  and  on  those  near  the  entrance  of  Green  Bay;  dwelling  there, as  appears  from  a  letter  written  that  year  by  Father  Claude  Dab- Ion  from  the  mission  of  St.  Francis  Xavier,  at  Green  Bay,  "but as  sfrafigers,  the  fear  of  the  Iroquois  having  driven  them  from their  lands,  which  are  between  the  Lake  of  the  Hurons  and  tJiat of  the  Illinois";  \_i.t.,  the  Peninsula  of  Michigan.]
From  these  islands  they  advanced  southward  between  the shores  of  Green  Bay  and  Lake  Michigan,  populating  both  v,-ith their  villages.  Father  Hennepin's  narrative  of  La  Salle's  voyage mentions  the  fact,  that,  the  year  prior  to  LaSaile's  coming  west- ward, 167S,  he  had  sent  out  a  party  of  traders  in  advance;  who, having  bartered  successfully  with  the  Pottawatomies  at  tlie  islands named,  were  anxiously  waiting  for  La  Salle  at  the  time  of  his arrival  there  in  the  Griffon.  I'he  same  author  notes  the  further fact  that  LaSalle's  party,  as  they  coasted  southward,  traded  at another  village  of  the  same  tribe,  situated,  probably,  at  She- boygan, AVisconsin,  certainly  not  south  of  Milwaukee,  AVhen LaSalle  reached  the  St.  Jose])hs  of  Lake  Michigan  there  were no  Pottawatomies  in  that  vicinity.  Shortly  after  this  time,  1678, they  seem  to  have  swarmed  from  their  prolific  hives  on  the islands  named,  and  advanced  southward  to  the  head  of  the  lake, from  which,  in  time,  they  spread  out  like  a  great  fan  ;  their  left extreme  covering  that  part  of  the  State  of  ^lichigan  lying  south of  Grand  River  and  a  line  drawn  from,  its  source  to  the  mouth  of Lake  Huron  ;  their  right  extending  over  that  portion  of  Illinois lying  north  of  the  Kankakee  and  Illinois  ri\ers,  as  far  west  as the  territory  claimed  by  the  Winnebagoes  and  the  Sacs  and Foxes;  while  their  front  was  pushed  eastward  into  the  country of  the  Miamis  to  the  banks  of  the  Wabash  and  the  xMaumee. Father  Charlevoix  who  visited  the  localities  in  1721  says,  "the Pottawatomies  possessed  only  one  of  the  small  islands  at  the mouth  of  Green  J>ay,  but  had  two  other  villages,  one  on  the St.  Joseph  -•"  [of  Lake  Michigan]  and  tlie  other  at  '  the  Narrows  ' '' [Detroit.]
Concerning  the  village  near  Detroit,  and  also  some  of  the <  iistoms  of  its  occujjants,  we  have  the  following  account,  taken
*  The  Pottawatomie  villages  were  on  the  west  side  of  the  river,  in  tlie  near vicinity  of  Nilcs.  Old  Fort  St.  Joseph  and  the  Jesuite  Mission  from  which the  stream  and  the  fort  were  named,  stood  on  the  same  shore,  v.hile  the great  Miami's  town,  for  whom  the  river  was  originally  called,  was  upon  the opposite  bank.
-d]
1 68  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
from   an    official   '•  ^lemoir,    prepared   in   1718,   on    the    Indians
between  Lake  Erie  and  the  Mississippi:   ''The  port  of  Detroit  is  |
south  [west]  of  the  river.     The  village  of  the  Pottawatomies  ad-  |
joins    the    fort;    they    lodge    partly    under   apaquois  *  which  arc  |
made  of  mat-grass."  |
"The  women  do  all  the  work.     The  men  belonging  to  that  |
nation  are  well  clothed,  like  our  domiciHated  Indians  at  Montreal.  |
Their  entire  occupation  is  hunting  and  dress.     They  make  use  of  !
a  great  deal  of  vermilion,  and  in  winter  wear  bufl^ilo  robes  richly  |
painted,  and  in  summer  either  blue  or  red  cloth.     They  play  a  |
good  deal  at  LaCrosse  t  in  summer,  twenty  or  more  on  a  side."  t
*  Uh-puh-qudy,   in  ^he  Ojebway  dialect,   meaning  a  mat  for  the  floor  or  |
covering  of  a  wigv/am  ;  made  by  plaiting  or  weaving  reeds  together,  like  a  |
carpet.    -The  cat-tail  flag  furnished  a  popular  material  for  this  purpose;  and     •  \
they  were  so  skilfully  fastened  together  by  the  women,  who  made  them,  that  I
when  new,  the  rain  would  "not  penetrate  them." — VideY^X\\iix  Marest.     The  |
frame  of   the   wigwam   was    made    with  poles  fastened  in  the  ground,   in  a  i circular  form,  the  tops  drawn  together  in  a  cone,  and  over  these  the  matting*                  ,  |
were  placed.  A
+  The  Indian  game  of  ball,  or  cricket,  known  among  the  Algonquin  tribes-  v
by  the  name  of  Bag-gat-i-'timy,  called  by  the  Canadians  Ic  jeic  de  la  crossc,  |
(the  game  of  the  bat)  from  the  bat  used  in  the  play.      It  was  popular  among  |
the  aborigines  as  base-ball  is  with  the  whites  at  the  present  day,  and  is  still  |
played  among  them  substantially  as  described  nearly  two  centuries  ago  by  the  |
author  quoted  in  the  text.     George  Catlin,  the  great  Indian  portrait  painter,  |
ia  his   interesting    and  finely  illustrated  "  History  of   the    Nt:irth  American  |
Indians,"  says,  "I  made  it  an  uniform  rule  while  in  the   Indian  country  l<;>  f
attend  every  ball-play  I  could  hear  of,  if  I  could  do  it  by  riding  a  distance  t
of  twenty  or  thirty  miles.      *     *     *     It  is  no  uncommon  occurence  for  six  or  |
eight  hundred  or  a  thousand  young  men  to  engage  in  a  game  of  ball,  with  |
more  than  that  number  of  spectators — men,  women,  and  children — surround-  |
ing  tlie  ground    and    looking   on.     *     *"     *     In    the    game    every  player    is  |
dressed  alike,  that  is,  divested  of  all  dress,  except  the  girdle,  etc.      And  in  the  j
desperate  struggles  for  tlie  ball  when  it  is  up,  where  hundreds  are  running;  ;£
together  and  leaping,  actually  over  each  others  head,   and  darting  between  f
their  adversaries  legs,  tripping  and  throwing,  and  foiling  each  other  in  every  ^;
possible  manner,  and  every  voice  raised -to  the  highest  key,  in  shrill  yelps  and  ^
barks,  there  are  rapid  successions  of  feats  and  of  incidents,  that  astonish  an-.l  |
annaze  far  beyond  the  conce])tion  of  any  one  who  has  not  had  the  singular  ■%
good  luck  to  witness  them."     In  Pontiac's  war,  the  capture  of  the  Briti.h  ^
garrison  at  Mackinac  was  assigned  to  the  Ojebways,  who  effected  an  entrance  |
to  the  fort  through  the  stratagem  of  a  game  of  bag-gat-i-\vay.      Notice  was  I
THE    POTTAWATOMIES.  1 69
"  Their  bat  is  a  sort  of  a  little  racket,''"  and  the  ball  with  which they  play  is  made  of  very  heavy  wood,  somewhat  larger  than  the balls  used  at  tennis.  They  are  entirely  naked  except  a  breech- cloth,  and  moccasins  on  their  feet.  Their  bodies  are  completely painted  with  all  sorts  of  colors.  Some,  with  white  clay,  trace white  lace  on  their  bodies,  as  if  on  all  the  seams  of  a  coat,  and, at  a  distance,  it  would  be  taken  for  silver  lace.  They  play  very deep  and  often  the  bets  sometimes  amounting  to  more  than  eight hundred  livres.  They  set  ui-  two  poles,  and  commence  the  game from  the  centre  ;  one  party  propels  the  ball  from  one  side,  and the  others  from  the  op})osite  ;  and  whichever  reaches  the  goal wins.  It  is  a  fine  recreation  well  worth  seeing.  They  often  play village  against  village.  The  Poux  [a  nickname  for  the  Potta- watomies]  against  the  Ottawas,  or  Hurons,  and  at  heavy  stakes. vSometimes  the  PTench  join  in  the  game  with  them.
"The  women  cultivate  Indian-corn,  beans,  squashes,  and  melons, which  come  up  very  fine.  The  women  and  girls  dance  at  night. They  adorn  themselves  considerably ;  grease  their  hair,  paint. their  faces  with  vermilion,  juit  on  a  white  chemise,  wear  what- ever wampum  they  possess,  and  are  very  tidy  in  their  way. They  dance  to  the  sound  of  the  drum  and  si-si-cpioi,  which  is  a sort  of  gourd  containing  some  grains  of  shot.  Four  or  five  young men  sing  and  beat  time  with  the  drum  and  rattle,  and  the  women keep  time,  and  do  not  lose  a  step.  It  is  very  interesting,  and lasts  almost  the  entire  night."'
"The  old  men  often  dance  the  medicine.  [The  medicine  or sorcerer's  dance.]  They  resemble  a  set  of  demons  ;  and  all  tliis takes  place  daring  the  night.  The  young  men  often  dance  in  a circle,  and  strike  posts.  It  is  then  they  recount  their  achieve- ments, and  dance,  at  the  same  time,  the  war-dance;  and  when- ever they  act  thus  they  are  highly  ornamented.      It  is  altogether
given  that  on  King  George's  l^irthday,  June  4,  1763,  the  Chippewas  would play  against  the  Sacs  for  a  high  wager.  And  when  the  excitement  of  the game  was  at  its  height,  the  ball,  as  if  by  chance,  was  tlirown  over  ti)c palisade;  the  players,  as  if  only  eagerly  intent  on  the  game,  ru>hcd,  pell- mell,  by  tlie  unsuspecting  suldiers,  through  the  open  gate,  and,  dro[)ping their  bats,  seized  the  knives  and  tomahawks  concealed  imder  the  blankets  of their  squaws,  v.ho  were  already  within  the  fort,  and  at  once,  says  Alexander Henry,  an  eye-v.itness,  "began  cutting  down  and  scalping  every  Englishman they  found." — F/./V  Henry's  "Travels  and  Adventures  in  Canada."
*  The  sticks  arc  bent  into  an  oblong  hoop  at  the  end,  with  a  sort  of  sleight web  of  small  thongs  tied  across  to  prevent  the  ball  from  passing  through. — Catmn.
170  ILLINOIS   AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.
very  curious.  They  often  perform  these  tilings  for  tobacco. Wlien  they  go  hunting,  which  is  every  fah,  they  carry  their apaquois  with  them,  to  hut  under  at  night.  Everybody  follows — men,  women,  and  children.  They  winter  in  the  forest  and  return in  the  spring."
In  all  the  broils,  growing  out  of  the  bitter  competition  for  the fur-trade,  between  French  and  British  adventurers,  and  in  the intrigues  of  the  respective  executives  of  New  France  and  the British  colonies  to  win  over  the  Indian  tribes,  or  incite  them  to acts  of  hostihty  against  the  other,  and  in  which  neither  the French  nor  the  British  ever  once  consulted  the  welfare  of  the Indians  themselves,  the  Pottawatomies  maintained  an  unswerving alliance  with  the  French.  When  these  troubles  ni  the  American provinces,  with  many  years  of  accumulated  grievances,  at  length provoked  a  formal  declaration  of  hostilities  between  France  and Great  Britian,  and  the  French  Colonial  War  was  began,  the Pottawatomies  fought  it  through  to  the  end  under  the  flag  of their  old  friends.  After  the  Northwest,  with  its  military  estab- lishments, was  turned  over  to  the  victor,  they  were  ready  to  join the  chief  (and  their  own  kinsman),  Pontiac,  in  his  bold  attempt to  capture  these  posts  and  drive  the  British  from  the  country." Fort  St.  Joseph  being  in  the  country  of  the  Pottawatomies,  it  was given  over  for  them  to  take.  Fnsign  Schlosser  was  in  command ai  the  tinie,  with  only  fourteen  soldiers  to  support  him.  He  was confronted  on  the  25th  of  May,  1763,  by  a  horde  of  Pottawato-
*  Pontiac  was  the  great  chief  of  the  Ottawas.  "His  plans  Avere  matured, and  late  in  1762,  his  messengers  carried  black  wampum  belts  and  red  toma- hawks"— en.-ignas  of  war — "to  the  villages  of  the  Ottawas,  Ojibwas,  Potta- ■watomies,  Sacs,  Foxes,  Menomonies,  Illinois,  Miamis,  Shawnees,  13elawares, Wayandots  [llurons],  Senecas,"  etc.  On  a  certain  day,  in  the  next  year, said  the  messengers,  all  the  tribes  were  to  rise,  seize  all  the  British  posts  and at  once  attact  the  whole  British  border. " —  Fide  "  Western  Annals.  "  Accord- ingly, the  several  forts  were  nearly  simultaneously  attacked.  P^ort  St.  Joseph, on  the  river  of  that  name  in  Michigan;  l''ort  Ouatanon,  on  the  Wabash,  near La  Fayette,  Indiana;  Miamis,  at  Ft.  Wayne,  in  the  same  State;  Sandusky, near  the  city  of  the  same  name  in  Ohio;  Presque  Isle,  at  I'.rie,  Penn. ;  Fort> Le  Krf.uf  and  \'enango,  on  the  water  route  between  Lrie  and  Pittsburg;  and Fort  Mackinac,  as  stated  in  a  previous;  tiote,  were  all  surprised  and  captured. 1  he  forces  at  the  Saulte  de  Sie.  Mary,  at  the  outlet  of  Lake  Suj^erior,  had been  withdrawn  and  were  among  the  massacred  at  Mackinac;  while  the  gar- rison at  Green  Hay,  Hirough  the  concilatory  and  brave  conduct  of  their  com- manding officer,  Lieut.  James  Gorrell,  escaped  to  a  place  of  safety;  leaving both  these  places  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy.      Only  three  of   the
THE    POTTA\VATOMIES.  .  I/J
mies  from  Detroit,  ostensibh'  on  a  friendly  visit  to  their  kinsman living  on  the  St.  Joseph.  The  commandant  was  apprised  that the  fort  was  surrounded  by  hostile  Indians.  At  this,  Schlosser ran  out  of  his  apartment,  and  crossed  the  parade  grounds,  which were  full  of  Canadians  and  Indians.  He  entered  the  barracks, and  these  were  also  crowded  with  disorderly  and  insolent  savages.. He  called  his  sergeant  to  get  the  soldiers  under  arms;  and,  hurry- ing back  again  to  the  parade,  endeavored  to  muster  the  unwilling Canadians.  All  at  once  a  wild  cry  came  from  within  the  barracks, when  the  Indians  in  the  fort  ruslied  to  the  gate,  where  they  killed the  sentinel,  and  op>ened  the  gate  for  ingress  to  their  friends  widi- out.  In  less  than  two  minutes,  as  tire  officer  declares,  the  fort was  plundered,  eleven  men  were  killed,  and  himself,  with  the three  survivors,  made  prisoners  and  bound  fast.-''
In  the  border  troubles  preceding  the  Revolutionary  War;  dur- ing the  latter  contest,  and  throughout  the  Indian  difficulties  that followed  it,  down  to  the  dose  of  Gen.  Wayne's  successful  cam- paign against  the  confederated  Indian  tribes  in  1794,  war-parties of  the  Pottawatomies  made  frequent  and  destructi\e  raids  along the  lines  of  the  settlements  in  Pennsylvania,  Kentucky,  Ohio, and  Indiana.  However,  those  of  this  tribe  living  upon  the Wabash  and  in  near  communication  with  \"incennes,  were  much less  annoying  in  this  regard;  and  se\eral  of  their  chiefs  and bands  manifested  an  early  friendship  for  tlie  Americans,  whom they  called  their  brother,  the  Big-KuifcA'
thirteen  posts  were  saved.  Forts  Detroit  and  Pitt,  after  withstanding  severe sieges,  were  relieved  by  forces  timely  sent  to  their  succor;  while  the  remain- ing one,  Fort  Niagara,  at  the  mouth  of  Niagara  River,  was  assailed  by  the Scnecas,  who  shortly,  after  abandoned  the  attempt,  fearing  the  hostility  of the  other  tribes  of  their  ov/n  nation,  the  Iroquois,  whose  sympathies  were always  with  the  British.
*  ]'ide  Parkmen's  ''Ili^tory  of  the  Conspiracy  of'Pontiac,"  from  which  tlie foregoing  details  are  taken:  Ensign  John  Joseph  Schlosser,  a  native  (lerman, capt.-lieut.  60  Reg't  Royal  American^,  May  12,  1756;  capt.  July  20,  175S; at  the  siege  of  Ft.  Niagara  in  1759;  after  its  surrender,  commanded  a  post  on American  side  of  the  river  about  a  mile  above  the  Falls  and  below  the  mouth of  Gill  Creek,  which,  in  honor  of  him,  has  since  borne  the  name  of  "Old Fort  Schlos.-,er.  "  In  command  of  and.taken  prisoner  at  Ft.  St.  Joseph,  Michi- gan, May  25,  1763;  taken  to  Detroit  shortly  after,  and  e.\changed;  was  serv- ing witli  same  regiment  at  Philadelphia  in  1772. — "Army  Eists";  "  Penn.  Ar- chives"; "Parkman's  Pontiac";  Military  Map  of  Niagara  frontier  in  Wm.  . James'  (British)  "Account  of  Ocojrrences  of  the  Eate  War  (of  1812)  between Great  Britain  and  the  United  States."
■f  The  Virginians,  J-Centuckians,  and  other  early   border-men  usually  carried
I "  t
1/2  ILLINOIS   AND    INDLVXA    LXDLVXS.
They  were  greatly  iniluenced,  for  a  wliile,  by  tiie  schemes  of Tecnrathe  and  his  brother,  the  Prophet,  in  a  mucli  less  prolonged degree,  however,  than  tlie  Kickapoos  and  seveial  of  the  other tribes;  and  a  fair  representation  of  their  warriors  took  part  in the  batde  of  Tippecanoe.''
very  large  kni\es,  and  Gen.  Geo.  Rogers  Ciark"s  campaigners  were  notably equipped  in  this  way.  From  this  circumstance  the  Western  hunters  and  fighters were  called,  in  the  Miami-Iilini  dialect,  She-iiiol-sea,  meaning  the  big-knife. At  a  later  day,  the  same  name  under  the  Chippewayan  word  CJte-mo-ko-)nou was  extended  by  kindred  tribes  to  the  white  people  generally — always  except- ing the  Englishmen  proper,  v,hom  they  called  the  '•'■  Sag-e-nask''\  and  the  X^ew Englanders,  whom  they  styled  ^^ Bos-to-ne-ly-\  i.  e.,  the  Bostonians.  The  term is  derived  from  the  Miami  v.ord,  Mal-shca,  or  ^fol-sea,  a  knife,  or  the  Ojeb- wsiy  J/oo-ko-mati,  which  means  the  same  thing;  wliile  the  prefix  she  or  c/ie seems  to  emphasize  the  character  of  the  instrument  as  a  Imge  or  long  knife. Such  is  the  origin  of  the  expression  "long-knives"  and  "big-knife",  frequently met  with  in  Indian  discourses,  and  in  books  w;here  Indian  characters  appear. *  Wa-bun-see,  The  Lookitr^-g/ass,  principal  war-chief  of  the  prairie  band of  Pottawatoraies,  residing  on  the  Kankakee  River  in  Illinois,  distinguished himself,  the  last  of  October,  iSii,  by  leaping  aboard  of  one  of  Gov.  Har- rison's supply  boats,  loaded  with  corn,  as  it  was  ascending  tlie  Wabash,  five miles  above  Terre  Haute,  and  killing  a  man,  and  making  his  escape  ashore without  injury. — Official  letter  of  Gov.  Harrison;  Reynolds'  "  INIy  Own Times."  This  chiefs  name  is  notably  connected  with  the  massacre  at  Chi- cago. While  he  approved  and  participated  in  the  deed,  through  the  stronger regards  of  personal  friendship,  he  tried  to  save  the  wounded  and  heroic  Capt. Wm.  Wells  from  a  pursuing  savage  of  his  own  nation  by  whom  the  death- stab  was  given;  and  he  was  one  of  the  five  Indians  who  stood  at  the  door  of Kinzie's  hou.se,  at  the  peril  of  their  lives,  guarding  its  inmates  from  a  terrible fate  that  would  have  surely  followed  but  for  their  timely  intervention,  lie and  his  band  were  enibraced  in  the  treaty  of  peace  concluded  at  lireenvilie, July  22,  1814;  and  ever  after  were  on  terms  of  friendship  with  the  people  of  the United  States.  In  the  .so-called  Black-Hawk  War  of  1832,  he  and  his  war- riors volunteered  their  services  to  the  whites,  and  campaigned  and  fought  by the  side  of  the  Illinois  militia.  The  chief  bore  conspicuous  parts  in  the several  treaties  conducted  at  Chicago,  and  was  well  known  and  is  still  remem- bered by  many  of  its  early  citizens.  In  1836,  his  people,  having  ceded  all their  lands  in  Indiana  and  Illinois,  he-went  v.  ith  them  to  their  reservation near  Council  Bluffs.  A  fine  portrait  of  him  is  presei-ved  in  the  Indian  gal- lery at  Washingtou.  A  copy  of  it  would  be  appropriate  in  the  collections  of the  Historical  Society  of  the  great  city  of  the  West,  whose  aboriginal  remi- niscences this  society,  besides  a  wide  field  of  other  meritable  labor,  is  engaged in  gathering  and  storing  for  future  reference.
THE  ^OTTA^VATO^rIES.  173
The  official  letters  of  the  governors  of  the  Indiana  and  Illi- nois Territories;  the  current  news  items  of  the  day,  published  in the  Vinccums  Suih  the  Missouri  Gazette  at  St.  Louis,  and  Niles" Weekly  Register  at  Washington,  surhciently  illustrate  the  threaten- ing attitude  of  the  Pottawatomies  (along  with  other  tribes)  before and  subsequent  to  the  collision  of  arms  at  the  Prophet's  Town: and  show  that  subjects  of  Great  Britain,  or  from  its  Province  ot Canada,  engaged  in  the  Indian  trade  within  our  borders,  were but  so  many  busy  and  influential  agents  in  supplying  the  Indians with,  munitions  of  war,  and  stirring  up  a  discontent  aiiiong  them that  would  burst  into  aggressive  hostility  as  soon  as  war  should be  declared  between  the  two  powers.  And  when  the  war  was declared,  the  Pottawatomies  went  over  to  the  standard  of  Great Britain  in  a  body.  Their  first  blood  was  that  of  innocent  vic- tims, mingled  with  the  slaughter  of  a  body  of  brave  soldiers, whose  too-confiding  officer,  against  the  admonitions  of  those better  acquainted  with  the  treacherous  ways  of  Indians,  left  the fortress  and  exposed  his  men,  and  the  women  and  children  under his  care  to  their  savage  fury.  The  horrors  of  the  massacre  at Chicago,  August  15,  18 12,  have  been  so  often  told  and  pubHshed in  so  many  books,  as  to  render  tlieir  repetition  w^hoUy  unneces- sary here.  It  was  Pottawatomies  (assisted  probably  by  a  few Winnebaoges)  who  did  it:  and  their  several  bands  from  the  Illi- nois and  Kankakee  rivers:  from  the  St.  Joseph  of  the  Take,  and the  St.  Josejjh  of  the  Maumee,  and  those  of  the  \A\abash  and  its tributaries  were  all  represented  in  the  despicable  act."
Their  hostility  ceased  with  the  war  of  1812,  after  v/hich  tlieir relations  were  uniformly  peaceable;  and  they  endured  the  many impositions  and  grievances  put  upon  them  by  not  a  few  of  their unprincipled  and  unfeeling  white  neighbors,  with  a  forbearance that  ought  to  have  aroused  public  sympathy.
*  The  statement  in  the  text  as  to  the- participants  in  the  Chicai^o  massacre, is  given  in  harmony  with  all  contemporaneous  and  subsequent  accounts,  tiie single  exception  being  tlie  version  of  Walter  Jordan,  who  (in  a  letter  to  his wife,  dated  at  Ft.  Wayne,  Oct.  19,  icSi2,  and  which  appeared  in  Xiles'  Wa-l-ly Register  for  May  8,  1813)  says  the  retreating  garrison  "were  attacked  by  600 Kickapoo  and  Wynabago  Indians."  He  is  as  clearly  mistaken  in  this  as  he is  in  several  other  statements  in  his  letter.  He  says  Capt,  Wells  had  with him  one  hundred  confute  [Miami]  fndiarfs,  and  that  \\\Qi'>Q.  joined  the  enemy. Capt.  Heald,  the  commanding  officer,  says  Weils  had  about  thirty  Miamis,  a part  of  whom  were  placed  in  front,  while  the  remainder  brought  up  in  the rear  as  an  escort;  nnd  tluit  ihcy  refused  assistance  when  the  fight  came  on. •Samuel  R.  P.rov/n,  in  his  valuable  history,  published  in  1 81 5,  concurs;  while Mrs.  Jolm   H.    Kinzie  (in  "Wau-Lun"),  drawing  lier  material  from  several
1/4  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA    INDIANS.  '
After  their  migration  from  the  islands  near  the  outflow  of  ( jreen Bay  southward,  they  seem  to  have  muUiphed  with  ^vondor^ll! fecundity.     The  time  of  this  movement  is  not  definitely  knowu.  |
Their  advance  line  had  reached  the  St.  Joseph  as  early,  probablw  f.
as  the   year  1700.      The  same  writer  whose  description  of  the  |
Pottawatomies  of  the  village  at  Detroit  in  17 18  we  have  quoted,  |
says  they  ca.me  from  the  St.  Joseph  River,  their  former  residence.  f
They  were  the  most  populous  tribe  between  the  lakes  and  the  *      |
Ohio,  the  Wabash  and  the  Mississippi;  they  claimed  Southeastern  \
Wisconsin  from  long  occupation,  and  crowded  themselves  into  |.
the  ancient  territory  of  the  ^Miamis,  "their  younger  brothers, ""  in Southern  ^Michigan  and  Northwestern  Indiana,  taking  possession through  sheer  force  of  superior  numbers,  rather  than  by  gage  of battle.  Always  on  friendly  terms  with  the  Kickapoos,  with  whom they  frequently  lived  in  mixed  villages,  they  joined  the  latter  and the  Sacs  and  Foxes  in  the  exterminating  war  upon  the  Illinois tribes,  and  afterward  obtained  their  allotment  of  the  despoiled domain.  By  other  tribes  the  Pottawatomies  were  called  '-scjuat- ters",  charged  with  never  having  had  any  lands  of  their  own,  and being  mere  intruders  upon  the  prior  estates  of  others.  "They were  foremost  at  all  treaties  where  lands  were  to  be  ceded,  clam- oring for  a  lion's  share  of  the  presents  and  annuities,  particularly where  these  last  was  the  price  paid  for  the  sale  of  others"  lands  f-
rather  than  their  own.""'  Between  the  years  1789  and  1837. they,  by  themselves,  or  in  connection  with  other  tribes,  made  no less  than  thirty-eight  treaties  with  the  United  States,  all  of  M-hich.  |
excepting  two  or  three,  Mhich  were  treaties  of  peace  only,  were  |
for  alienations  of  lands  claimed  Avholly  by  them  or  in  common  |
with  other  tribes.     These  cessions  embraced  territory  extending  ^
from  Cleveland,  Ohio,  westward  to  the  ^Mississippi;  portion--  ('1 Wisconsin  and  Michigan  east  of  Green  Bay  and  south  of  Mil-  .,
f eye-witnesses,  and  wliose  opportunities  for  acquiring  the  details  in  all  their  i
minutid:  were  better,  perhaps,  than  those  of  any  other  person  \vh<j  Iras  ever
written  on  the  subject,  says:  Capt.  Wells  had  only  fifteen  Miamis,  who  //rv'
at  the  outset;  and  that  their  chief  "rorle  up  to  the  Pottawatomies  and  said:
'  V'ou  liave  «leceived  the  Americans  and  us.      Vou  have  done  a  bad  action  ant!
(brandishing;  his  tomahawk)  I  will  be  the  first  to  head  a  party  of  Americans
to  return  aiid  punish  your  treachery.'     So  saying,  he  galloped  after  compani-  ^
ons  who  were  now  scouring  across  the  prairies."     Mr.  Jordan  says  he  went  |
from  Ft.  Wayne  to  Chicago  with  Capt.  Wells,  was  taken  prisoner,  and  made  |
his  escape.      His  whole  letter  is  colored  with  exaggeration,  and  those  parts  ol  I
it  that  stand  contradicted  by  writers  more  competent  than  he  to  know  the
facts,  are  not  to  be  relied  on.
*  Schoolcrart's  "Central  Mississippi  X'ailey. "
THE    POTTAWATOMIES.  J  75
waukee :  the  mouth  of  (rrand  River  and  the  south  end  of  Lake Huron;  and  covering  a  large  part  of  the  valleys  of  the  Illinois, the  Wabash,  the  ]^Iaumee,  and  their  tributary  waters.  Contem- poraneous maps  and  government  surveys  display  their  numerous villages,  and  indicate  their  many  reservations  throughout  this vast  area  of  country.""
The  Indians  themselves  were  not  blind  to  the  ultimate  result of  the  relentless  demands  of  the  white  people  for  more  and  more- of  their  lands.  On  several  occasions  when  they  confronted  the agents  of  the  general  government,  who  had  invited  them  to  coun- cil for  the  purpose  of  buying  still  another  part  of  their  jxisses- sions,  they  protested,  as  best  they  could,  against  making  furtb.er sales.  A  notable  instance  of  this  occurred  at  the  treaty  con- cluded Aug.  29,  1 82 1,  at  Chicago,  111.,  with  the  Pottawatomie, Ottawa,  and  Chippeway  tribes.  •  By  this  treaty  the  United  States proposed  to  extinguish  the  Indian  title  to,  substantially,  all  that country  lying  south  of  Grand  River,  fiom  its  source  to  its  mouth; and  east  of  Lake  Michigan,  between  its  southern  extremity  and Grand  River;  bounded  on  the  south  by  a  line  drawn  from  the south  end  of   the  lake  east,   through  Northern   hidiana,  to  the
*  Besides  the  villages  already  referred  to  in  this  volume,  the  Pottawatoiaies had  others  of  liistorical  interest,  namely:  a  large  settlement  on  the  "Mil-Ie- wac-kie"  (as  they  called  the  Milwaukee)  River;  on  th?  '"Schip-i-co-ten  ",  or Root  River,  at  the  confluence  of  which  with  the  lake  is  the  city  of  Racine;  at '* Wah-kuli-e-gun"  (the  fort),  or  Waukegan;  a  scattering  village  upon  both the  north  and  south  branches  of  the  "Chicago",  the  name  of  the  stream  sig- nifying a  skunk  in  its  primary,  and  a  wild  onion  in  its  secondary  sense;  others, on  the  "  She-shick-ma-o-shi-ke"  (the  tree  from  which  the  water  flows),  or  the River  des  Plaines,  from  French-Cana''ian  word  Plaine  or  Flein,  meaning  a variety  of  maple  growing  along  its  borders;  and  still  other  towns  upon  the ' iJnPagc,  so  called  from  a  Frenchman  who  formerly  lived  and  died  on  its  banks, and  the  Pottawatomie  name  for  which  was  "  0-to-ka-ke-nog"  (the  uncovered breast).  Westward  of  these  was  the  village  of  "Shaw-way-ne-be-nay  "  (con- tracted to  Sha!j-eh-nay  and  .Shau-be-nay),  at  "  As-sim-in-eh-kon",  or  Pawpaw Grove.  On  the  Illinois  River  and  its  northern  tributaries  above  Peoria  were still  others;  among  them  Conio  or  Gomo's  town,  near  the  head  of  the  lake; "  Wabunsee's",  or  "  Wau-pon-eh-see",  near  the  mouth  of  "  Pish-ta-ka",  or "Poish-tah-te--/(6'f>jZ! "  (antelope),  as  the  Natives  called  the  Fox  River  of  the Illinois;  while  "' Muck-e-te-po-kee's"  (the  t)lack  partridge)  town  was  near  the mouth  of  the  "  Au  Sable"  (French  for  Sandy  Creek),  three  miles  below  the junction  of  the  des  Plaines  and  the  Kankakee.  Pligher  up  the  last-named  river, some  twenty  miles,  stood  the  tov/n  of  the  notorious  "Main-poc",  "Mai-jx^ck  ", or  "Mai-po",  as  his  name  is  variou.dy  spelled.     At  the  mouth  of  Rock  Creek,
1/6  .ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.
mouth  of  the  An  Glaze  River  at  Defiance,  Ohio,  and  thence  north by  the  west  boundary-Hne  of  a  previous  cession  to  the  source  of Grand  River  in  Michigan.  As  the  proceedings  of  tliis  treaty fairly  ilhistrate  the  manner  in  which  such  affairs  are  conducted,  a portion  of  them  are  given  here,  as  taken  down  at  the  time  by Hon.  Henry  R.  Schoolcraft,  who  was  officially  connected  with the  commission,  and  preser^-ed  in  one  of  the  more  scarce  vol- umes of  his  several  narrative  journals.'''
"Aug.  14,  1 82 1.  "  "  '■'  On  crossing  the  Desplaines,  we found  the  opposite  shore  tlironged  with  Indians,  whose  loud  and obtrusive  salutations  caused  us  to  make  a  few  moments'  halt. From  this  point  we  Avere  scarcely  ever  out  of  sight  of  straggling parties,  all  proceeding  to  the  same  place.  ]\[ost  commonly  they were  mounted  on  horses,  and  apparelled  in  their  best  manner, decorated  with  medals,  silver  bands,  and  feathers.  The  gaudy and  showy  dresses  -of  these  troops  of  Indians,  with  the  jingling caused  by  the  striking  of  their  ornaments,  and  their  spirited  inan- ner  of  riding,  created  a  scene  as  novel  as  it  was  interesting. Proceeding  from  all  parts  of  a  very  extensive  circle  of  country,
at  Kankakee  City,  and  Vellow-IIeads  Point,  a  few  miles  north  of  Momence. were  the  respective  villages  of  "  Shavv-waw-nay-see"  (the  Shawnee);  "  She- mar-ger"  (the  soldier);  and  '' Min-ne-mung"  (the  yellow  headl  The  latter's sister  was  the  v/ife  of  Billy  Caldwell,  whose  name  is  so  intimately  connected with  early  Chicago.  —  Vide  paper  by  the  Hon.  Wni.  Ilicklitig,  published  in No.  10  of  the  Fkkgl'S  Historical  Series.  Reservations  at  the  three  last- named  villages  were  secured  to  the  above  presiding  chiefs  by  the  Treaty  of Camp  Tippecanoe,  held  near  Logansport,  Ind.,  October  20,  1832;  and,  witli other  reserves  in  those  neighborhoods,  were  surveyed  off  in  the  presence  of the  beneficiaries  and  Gen.  Tipton,  Indian  agent,  by  the  writer's  father,  Major Dan.  W.  Beckwith,  U.  .S.  Deputy  Surveyor,  in  May,  1834.
More  numerous  and  populous  villages  of  the  Pottawatomies  were  in  South ern  Michigan  and  Northern  Indiana,  on  the  St.  Joseph,  the  Kalamazoo  (these Indians  called  it  Kek-a-la-via-zoo,  signifying  a  "boiling  pot"),  and  the  several streams  flowing  into  the  Detroit  River  and  Maumee  Bay,  between  Detroit  and Toledo.  Of  these  may  be  named  that  of  "To-pen-ne-bee",  their  great  heredi- tary chief,  at  •'  Pare  au:c  Vaches"  (the  cow- pen),  as  the  Canadian- French traders  facitiously  nick-named  the  vicinity  of  old  I'\)it  St.  Joseph;  "  Chip-pe- outi-pc",  at  .South  Bend;  and  the  villages  of  lue  Fi\e  Medals  and  "  Waj)-V)c- me-me"  (the  v.hite  pigeon),  higher  up  the  river.  North  anrl  westward  of  the Wabash  were  others;  "Chit-cha-kos"  on  the  Tippecanoe,  and  "Chi[)-poy'\ tvventy-fne  rniles  below  the  mouth  of  the  latter  stream.  Others  might  be named,  but  enough  have  been  given  to  illustrate  the  assertion  of  the  text.
*  His  "Travels,  etc.,  in  the  Central  I^Iississippi  Valley."
THE    POTTAWATOMIES.        ,  1 7/
approached,  the
more  compact  and  concentrated  the  body  became:  and  we  found our  cavalcade  rapidl)  augmented.  Consequently,  the  dust,  con- fusion, and  noise  increased  at  every  by-path  that  intersected  our way.  After  crossing  the  south-fork  of  the  Chicago,  and  emerg- ing from  the  forest  that  skirts  it,  nearly  the  whole  number  of those  who  had  preceded  us  appeared  on  the  extensive  and  level plain  that  stretches  along  the  shore  of  the  lake,  while  the  refresh- ing and  noble  spectacle  of  the  lake  itself,  with  'vast  and  sullen sweir,  appeared  beyond.  We  found,  on  reaching  the  post,  that between  two  and  three  thousand  Indians  were  assembled — chiefly Pottawatomies,  Ottawas,  and  Chippeways.  Many  arrived  on  the following  days;  and  provisions  were  daily  issued  by  the  Indian department,  to  about  three  thousand,  daily,  during  the  treaty. To  accommodate  the  large  assemblage  mentioned,  an  open bower,  provided  with  seats  for  the  principal  chiefs  and  headmen, had  been  put  up  on  the  green,  extending  along  the  north  bank of  Chicago  Creek.  [Near  the  old  John  Kinzie  house.]  This site,  being  at  some  distance  from  the  principal  encampments, and  directly  under  the  guns  of  the  fort,  ensured  both  safety  and order  for  the  occasion.  The  formalities  which  custom  has  pre- scribed in  negotiations  of  this  kind,  occupied  the  first  two  or three  days  after  our  arrival,  during  which  the  nunber  of  Indians was  constantly  augmenting.  It  was  not  until  the  17th  that  they were  formally  met  in  council,  when  Governor  [Lewis]  Cass,  on behalf  of  the  commissioners  [Solomon  Sibley  was  then  the  asso- ciate-commissioner], stated  to  them  the  following  proposition: — "Your  father  [referring  to  the  president  of  the  United  States] has  o])served  that  you  possess  an  extensive  country  about  the  St. Joseph,  which  you  do  not  cultivate  nor  appear  to  want.  He  has instructed  us  to  come  here  for  the  purpose  of  making  a  purchase of  a  part  of  that  land,  and  to  pay  you  a  liberal  price  for  it,  which we  shall  agree  upon.  The  quantity  of  game  you  now  kill  in  that part  of  the  country  is  very  little — ^ almost  nothing:  and  we  can give  you  for  it  that  whicli  will  be  more  valuable  and  serviceable to  yoursehes.  We  have  brought  with  us  a  large  amount  of  goods to  be  distributed  among  you;  and  we  shall  also  stipulate  to  pay you  a  certain  sum  of  money  annually.  It  was  agreed  by  the Treaty  of  St.  Marys  to  pay  you  an  annuity  of  one  thousand  two hundred  and  fifty  dollars,  and  by  the  Treaty  of   ,  one  thou- sand dollars ;  both  of  which  sums  of  money  are  now  here  and  ready to  be  paid  to  you."     Should  we  conclude  an  agreement  for  the
*  The  St.  Marys  referred  to  was  a  stockade  erected  in  1794  by  Gen.  Wayne •IS  a  depot  for  his  military  supplies,  at  the  Portage  of  the  St.  Marys'  River, 12
178  ILLINOIS    AND   INDIANA    INDIANS.
purchase  of  the  lands  on  the  St.  Joseph,  vre  feel  willing  that  siicij reservations  shall  be  made  as  may  be  proper.  It  will  be  many years  before  the  coimtry  will  be  settled  by  the  Americans;  dnriiiL: all  that  time  you  will  retain  possession  of  the  lands,  at  the  sam-j time  that  you  are  drawing  your  annuities  for  them,  '"^  ■^  "^ You  can  take  time  to  consider  the  proposition  we  have  now- made.  Counsel  among  yourselves,  and  deliver  your  answer  as soon  as  you  can  agree.  Above  all,  let  me  entreat  you  to  refrain from  whisky  during  the  treat}-,  that  you  may  be  able  to  see  justice done  to  yourselves.     "     "      '•'  ''
Each  sentence,  being  distinctly  translated,  was  received  with  a Ho-ah! — a  term  that  on  these  occasions  merely  indicates  atten- tion. The  interjection  (subjoins  Mr.  Schoolcraft  in  a  foot-note), when  strongly  emphasized  and  responded  by  many  voices,  also denotes  approbation — and  is  nearly  equivalent  to  our  '"hear  him!"' and  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  perceive  by  the  maiuici'  of  its  enuncia- tion whether  the  matter  spoken  excites  pleasure,  indifference,  or disapprobation.
A  short  pause  ensued,  during  which  the  customary  in-esents were  issued,  when  Me-te-a,  a  Pottawatomie  chief  from  tlie Wabash,''  made  the  following  laconic  reply: —
"My  Father:  —  We  have  listened  to  what  you  have  said. AVe  will  now  return  to  our  camps  and  consult  upon  it.  Vou  will hear  nothing  more  from  us  at  present."
The  council  being  again  convened  on  the  19th,  the  same  Pot- Mercer  Co.,  Ohio;  and  last  commanded  by  Capt,  John  Whistler,  who  succes- sively commanded  at  Forts  St.  Mary,  Wayne,  and  old  Fort  Dearborn  at  Chi- cago; the  latter  he  built  in  1803.
The  blank  sp^ace  in  Gen.  Cass'  address  before  the  words  "one  thousau'' dollars",  should  be  supplied  by  inserting  the  "Treaty  of  Edwardsville",  Hl.^ Aug.  24,  1816,  by  which  the  United  States,  for  the  purpose  of  controlling  the ■water  communication^  since  improved  as  the  "  Illinois  and  Michij^Mn  CanaL", purchased  from  the  united  Tt^ttawatomie,  Ottawa,  and  Chippeway  tribe-, "residingon  the  Illinois  and  Milwaukee  rivers  and  their  waters,  and  the  south- western parts  of  Lake  Michigan",  a  strip  of  land  ten  miles  wide  on  botr; sides  o{  the  saijie,  and  extending  from  the  mouth  of  L'ox  River  at  Ottawa,  V^■^ easterly  to  the  confluence  of  Chicago"  Creek  with  Lake  Michigan.
*  Mus-qua  \Vas-e-peo-tan  (the  old  town  of  Redwood  or  Cedar  Creek),  ot which  Me-te-a  was  presiding  war  and  civil  chief,  was  situated  near  the  con- fluence of  that  stream  with  the  St.  Joseph  of  the  Maumee,  some  nine  milc/^ northeast  of  Ft.  Wayne,  Ind. — "Long's  Second  Expedition";  other  accounts; and  contemporaneous  maps,  etc.
THE    POTTAWATOMIES.  179
awatomie  was  delegated  by  the  three  tribes  to  deliver  their  reply to  Gen.  Cass"  speech.      Me-te-a  arose  and  said:  —
''My  Father:  —  We  meet  you  here  today,  because  we  had promised  it,  to  tell  you  our  mind  and  what  we  have  agreed among  ourselves.  You  will  listen  to  us  with  a  good  mind,  and believe  what  we  say.  My  father,  you  know  that  we  first  came  to this  country  a  long  time  ago,  and  sat  ourselves  down  upon  it; we  met  with  a  great  many  hardships  and  difficulties  [referring  to their  wars  with  its  former  occupants].  Our  country  was  then very  large;  but  it  has  dwindled  away  to  a  small  spot;  and  you wish  to  purchase  that !  This  has  caused  us  to  reflect  much  upon what  you  have  told  us ;  and  we  have,  therefore,  brought  along  all the  chiefs  and  warriors,  and  the  young  men,  and  women,  and children  of  our  tribe,  that  one  part  may  not  do  what  the  others object  to:  and  that  all  may  be  witnesses  of  what  is  going  forward.
"My  Father: — You  know  your  children.  Since  you  first came  among  them,''^  they  have  always  hearkened  to  your  coun- cils. Whenever  you  have  had  a  proposal  to  make  us— whenever you  have  had  a  favor  to  ask  of  us,  we  have  always  lent  a  favor- able ear;  and  our  invariable  answer  has  been  'Yes.'  This  you know.
"My  Father:— A  long  time  has  passed  since  we  first  came upon  our  lands;  and  our  old  people  have  all  sunk  into  their graves.  T/iey  had  sense.  Wc  are  all  young  and  foolish,  aiid  do not  wish  to  do  anything  that  they  would  not  approve,  were  they living.  \\<i  are  fearful  we  shall  offend  their  spirits  if  we  sell  our lands;  and  we  are  fearful  we  shall  offend  jjw/  if  we  dont  sell  them. This  has  caused  us  great  perplexity  of  thought,  because  we  luive counselled  among  ourselves,  and  do  not  know  how  we  can  pait with  the  land.  My  Father: — Our  country  was  given  us  by  the Great  Spirit,  who  gave  it  to  us  to  hunt  upon;  to  make  our  corn- fields upon;  to  live  upon;  and  to  make  down  our  beds  upon when  we  die.  And  lie  would  never  forgive  us,  should  we  now bargain  it  away.  When  you  first  spoke  to  us  for  lands  at  St. Marys, t  we  said  we  had  a  little,  and  agreed  to  sell  you  a  piece  of
*  Gen.  Cass  had  been  in  charge  of  government  affairs  over  these  tribes  for many  years,  and  acquired  an  extensive  acqQaintance;  had  conducted  a  number of  treaties  vvitli  them;  and  was  highly  esteemed  by  tlioa  for  his  uniformly  kind and  honorable  treatment  in  all  official  and  social  relations  with  them.
t  At  St.  Marys,  Ohio,  mentioned  in  a  previous  note,  where,  Oct.  2,  1818, Oen.  Cass,  with  Jonathan  Jennings  and  Capt.  JBcnj.  Park  of  Indiana,  con- cluded a  treaty  with  the  Pottawatomie  tribe  for  the  purchase  of  a  large  tract
l8o  ILLINOIS   AND   INDIANA    INDIANS..
it;  but  we  told  you  we  could  spare  no  more.  Now  you  ask us  agaiji.'    You  are  never  satisfied!
"My  Father: — We  have  sold  you  a  great  tract  of  land'- already;  but  it  is  not  enough!  \\q  sold  it  to  you  for  the  benefit of  your  children,  to  farm  and  to  live  u])on.  \Ve  have  nov/  but litde  left;  and  we  shall  want  it  for  ourselves.  We  know  not  hou long  we  may  live,  and  we  wish  to  have  some  lands  for  our  chil- dren to  hunt  upon.  You  are  gradually  taking  away  our  hunting- grounds.  Your  children  are  driving  us  before  them.  We  are growing  uneas}-.  What  lands  you  have  you  may  retain  forever; but  we  shall  sell  no  more.
''My  Father: — You  think,  perhaps,  that  I  speak  in  anger;  but my  heart  is  good  toward  you.  I  speak  like  one  of  your  children, I  am  an  Indian — -a  red-skin,  and  live  by  hunting  and  fishing. !My  country  is  already  too  small;  and  I  do  not  know  how  to bring  up  my  children  if  1  give  it  all  away.  We  sold  you  a  fine tract  of  land  at  St.  Marys. t  We  said  then  to  you,  it  was  enough to  satisfy  your  children,  and  the  last  we  would  sell;  and  we thought  it  would  be  the  last  you  would  ask  for.
"My  Father: — We  have  now  told  you  what  we  had  to  say.  It was  determined  on  in  council  among  ourselves;  and  what  I  have .spoken  is  the  voice  of  my  nation.  On  this  account  all  of  our people  have  come  here  to  listen  to  me;  but  do  not  think  we  have a  bad  opinion  of  you.  Where  should  we  get  a  bad  opinion  o\ you?  We  speak  to  you  with  a  good  heart  and  the  feelings  of  a friend.
"My  Father: — You  are  acquainted  with  this  piece  of  iai-id — the  country  we  live  in.:J:     Shall  we  give  it  up?     Take  notice,  it  is
of  country  lying  in  Central-western  Indiana  and  Eastern  Illinois,  frontlnj:^  on the  Wabash  from  the  mouth  of  the  Tippecanoe  to  tlie  moutli  of  the  Ver:n'l'on, and  extending  westward  to  a  line  drawn  as  nearly  parallel  with  the  Wabash as  practicable,  so  as  to  strike  tlie  two  latter  streams  twenty-five  miles  ftoni /their  respective  confluence  with  the  Wabash;  and  now  embraced  in  })arts  oi Tippecanoe,  White,  Benton,  all  of  Warren,  the  north  half  of  Vein.iilion counties  in   Indiana,  and  the  greater  portion  of  Vermilion  County  in  Illinoi-:
*  Referring  to  the  several  other  treaties  at  which  extensive  tracts  of  land claimed  by  them,  had  been  ceded.
+  Me-te-a  participated  at  the  Treaty'of  St.  Marys,  and  Iiis  name  appear-^ among  the  signers  of  the  treaty.
X  Through  the  war  of  t8i2,  and  during  his  long  relations  as  governor  of Michigan  Territory,  and  at  the  head  of  the  Western  Indian  Department, there  was,  perhaps,  no  one  better  acquainted  with  this  suburb  country  in question  than  Cren.  Cass.
Til E    POTT  A^^' ATO -M 1 ES.  '  '  -■  ■  '  ^  1 8  I
a  small  }:>iece  of  land,  and  if  we  give  it  up,  what  will  become  of us?  The  Great  Spirit,  wiio  has  provided  it  for  our  use,  allows  us to  keep  it  to  bring  up  our  young  men  and  support  our  families. We  shall  incur  his  anger  if  we  barter  it  away.  If  we  had  more land,  you  should  get  more;  but  our  land  has  been  wasting  away ever  since  the  white  people  became  our  neighbors,  until  now  we have  hardly  enough  left  to  cover  the  bones  of  our  tribe.
"  My  Father :  —  You  are  in  the  midst  of  your  red  children. What  is  due  to  us  in  money,  v.'c  wish  and  will  receive  it  at  this place."
"My  Father: — We  all  shake  liands  with  yon.i"  Ik'hold  our warriors,  our  women  and  children.  Take  pity  on  us  and  on  our \vords.''"
Mr.  Schoolcraft  says  in  a  note  at  this  place:  "I  wish  it  to  be distinctly  understood,  that  in  my  reports  of  these  speeches  I  have adhered,  literally,  to  the  spirit  and  form  of  expression  of  tlie interpreters,  and  have  seldom  ventured  to  change  the  particular phraseology.  This  will  be  apparent  on  perusal,  and  will  account for  the  familiar  cast  of  many  of  the  sentences.  Authenticity  was deemed  a  paramount  ol)ject,  and  to  the  attainment  of  this,  I  have sacrificed  all  attempt  at  ornament  or  embellishment.  By  this course,  undoubtedly,  great  injustice  is  done  to  the  sjiirit  of  the original;  but  it  must  be  recollected  that  it  is  nc  t  the  original,  but the  verbal  interpretation  that  1  have  undertaken  to  preserve." The  foot-notes  of  the  writer  to  Me-te-a's  speech,  are  supplied  to give  clearness  to  passages  or  allusions  that,  to  the  reader  of today,  might  otherwise  seem  vague  or  lacking  in  force.  Consid- ered as  a  categorical  reply  to  Gen.  Cass'  address,  and  as  a  resume of  the  relations  of  the  white  people  toward  the  red  man  on  the North  American  Continent,  particularly  the  tribes  in  question, involving  the  ultimate  destruction  of  the  latter,  as  the  inexorable result  of  the  contact;  the  speech  of  Me-te-a,  mangled  as  it  was and  shorn  of  its  strength  and  imagery  in  rendering  it  into  Eng- lish, is  logical,  persuasive,  pithy,  and  to  the  point;  and  shows  that this  uneducated  savage,  like  many  others  of  his  race,  possessed a  capacity  of  mind  and  gifts  of  oratory  not  inferior  to  those  of the  white  people.  J
*  By  the  term;s  of  the  treaty  at  KdwanKville,  the  annuity  was  to  be  paid  at some  place  on  the  Illinois  River  not  lower  down  tlian  Peoria;  wliile  the moneys  a^jreed  to  be  given  yearly,  under  tlie  provisions  of  the  Treaty  of  St. Mary->,  were  to  be  paid  half  at  Detroit  and  the  residue  at  Chicai^^o.  Me-te-a accepts  Gen.  Cass'  offer  to  receive  it  at  Chicago,  instead.
t  "A  fii^urative  expression",  says  Schoolcraft,  "much  used."
X  Chicago  was  familiar  ground  to  Me-te-a,  and  his  hands  were  stained  witii
fi^l
U\f>  1
l82  ILLINOIS    AND    INDIANA   INDIANS.  »,
The  Pottawatomies  were  among  the  last  to  close  out  their reservations  and  retire  beyond  the  Mississippi.  They  were  loth to  give  up  their  old  homes;  and  for  years  mingled  on  friendly terms  with  the  early  white  settlers.  The  final  emigration  from the  Wabash  and  St.  Joseph  was  deferred  until  183S.  Coercive measures  were  required  in  the  removal  of  the  bands  from  the latter  river.  The  Kankakee  and  some  of  the  other  Illinois  bands. as  stated  in  a  former  foot-note,  went  westward  some  two  years before.
In  1846,  the  scattered  families  of  the  Pottawatomies,  Ottawas. and  Chippeways  were  united  to  be  thereafter  known  as  the  Potta- watomie Natio/i.  For  $850,000,  to  be  paid  them  by  the  United States,  they  released  all  claims  to  their  several  reservations  in Iowa,  Missouri,  or  in  any  other  place  whatever.  In  lieu  of $87,000  of  the  above  sum,  they  took  576,000  acres  of  land  of the  general  government,  situated  on  both  sides  of  the  Kansas River,  Topeka,  Kansas,  being  very  nearly  in  the  centre  of  the tract.  While  Kansas  was  going  through  its  territorial  stages,  the so-called  "squatter  sovereigns''  intruded  upon  these  lands,  sold the  Pottawatomies  whisky  and  spread  a  general  demoralization among  them.  The  white  trespassers  killed  the  stock  of  tlie farmer  Indians,  burned  sonie  of  their  habitations,  and  resorted to  all  the  well-known  methods  practised  on  the  borders,  time  out of  mind,  to  make  it  unpleasant  for  the  Indians  who  were  her?^ struggling  up  successfully  from  barbarism  to  the  ways  of  civilized society.  The  usual  result,  a  dismemberment  of  the  reservaiion, followed.  The  farmer  Indians,  so  desiring,  had  their  portions  set off  in  severalty;  the  wilder  members  of  the  tribe  had  tlieir  sliare allotted  in  common.  For  the  most  part,  the  squatters  got  the lands  of  the  first,  while  an  alleged  needy  railroad  corporation '■' was  subsidized  with  the  latter.
From  the  several  reports  of  the  commissioners  of  Indian  atTairs
the  blood  of  the  massacre  there  in  1812.  The  same  autumn,  liis  right  arn) was  shattered,  and  ever  after  hung  a  withered  limb  at  his  side,  from  a  bulict wound  received,  near  Ft.  Wayne,  from  a  skirmisher  in  advance  of  Gov.  Har- rison's forces  marching  to  the  relief  of  that  place.  The  last  council  lie attended,  says  Gen.  John  Lipton  of  Indiana,  was  at  Ft.  Wayne  in  1S27, where  tlie  dignity  and  propriety  of  his  conduct  was  a  subject  of  remark.  '1  he business  at  an  end,  he  remarked  that  he  must  have  a  frolic.  He  got  drunk, and  roamed  the  village  in  a  frenzy,  demanding  more  liquor.  At  last,  as  wa.s supposed,  he  took  a  bottle  of  aqjia  fortis  from  a  shop-window,  and  drank  it. and  died  from  its  effects  within  half-an-hour  afterward. *  The  Atchison,  Topeka  <!<:  Santa  Fe  R.  R.  Co.
i :/::... r
TH?:    POTT AWATO MIES.  •  1 83
for  tlie  year  1863,  it  appears  that  there  was  2274  in  the  tribe,  all told;  that  the  farmers  among  them  raised  3720  bushels  of  wheat; 45,000  of  corn;  1200  of  oats;  and  1000  tons  of  hay;  and  that they  owned  1000  cattle.  1200  horses,  and  2000  hogs.  The  same year,  there  were  nniety-five  boys  and  seventy-five  girls;  and  in 1866  a  total  of  two  hundred  and  forty  scholars  attending  the Catholic  school  at  St.  Marys,  a  few  miles  north  of  Topeka,  where they  were  making  gratifying  progress.
Some  seventy-fi\'e  of  their  young  warriors  volunteered  on  the union  side  during  the  late  civil  war,  and  faithfully  served  "their country."  There  was  no  way  of  computing  their  numbers  accu- rately— so  many  of  the  young  and  .adventurous  having  strayed away  in  quest  a  more  exciting  life; — still,  in  1867,  out  of  a  popu- lation of  2400,  1400  elected  to  become  citizens  of  the  United States  under  an  enabling  act  passed  by  Congress.  Son^ie  did well  by  the  change;  while  others  squandered  their  lands,  and went  away  and  joined  the  wild  bands  or  mixed  with  other  tribes out  upon  the  plains.  There  are  still  a  itw  left  in  Indiana  and Michigan,  and  over  a  hundred  in  Wisconsin.
Fergus  Printing  Company,  Chicago.
.-^
irJ-iliSi  I  ilM^      K^XJ^lViV-^i^  .    ,      \-^»
L^-iiT  WORDS  IN  THE  FUI.PIT. ^   Tv'iln's  Famous  Sermons  on  1.  The  Church— Its  "Past;  li-
rpv;^.^.T-    III.   The  Chv;kch-Its  Fi;rcRC:    IV.,   A  Sermon  en  The  Mast ^.
-i.'    TO  THE  Pt.LTXT.     Also,  a  fine  Carbon  Portrsit  of  Mv.  Mi!n.     The:, -"-■-ep- easing  and  a^raphle  in  st^  Icsustammg  the  rc?.t-cr's  iUtenuon  :■■ .5  -cd  them  lor  the  purpose  of  iearuing  the  pos-iDi:  ot  tne  School  to  ■■  . •   ^.'f'u---C3   res':ited   in   his   exdusivn  from  the  Puipii  of  a  Uuitanaii  c^-.l.
.>f  rheoloeical  ]-?.a-irs:.;;
Faftes  SS; Pa-per,  5c
J-:    CHUKCH—
';  ove;    and  V,
hile  scholir'-.
;.ist.     L-overr
'.  Oiiiiy  Chvi/ci;
Cloth,  75  ceiJtv
Geo.  C,
jJberal  Ccr.vsntloa  at  Vvatkin's  Gles,  N.Y.,  August  273
s  and
t*  and   Footlights :     Or  the  Churcb  and  the  'I  neatie  «s   Frier. fere  delivered  by  Gfio.  C.  Mii-N,  Sept.  25!,  1^03,  at  Hooky's  Taeatrc,  Chicago,     t^
ily   Forces,     A
c.     Paper.      35  ci'^
^tion
I  regret itt:ers
to   the   Settlers  of  Ch''r?;?ro,  prior  to  1840.  by  the  Calumet -      .-,,,,  riub  ".'  "        ■'     -f  Reception;  Record  of  Okl  Settler?
''      ,,ev*Siephe"'  -rong.  Ex. -Chiei- Justice  John  Der;n  v
'     '■  ~- Janic:;;   _.  -.  ..vorth,  j-aage  Giant  Goodrica,  Roc.
■,;  Tables  riiowiug;  pi^vjc^  ^.-^  birth,  year  of  atrivai,  and  age  c'  • .lendixv'ith  letters  from  JolmW.-^tkiiis/NoriEan  S.  Towner,  is .    .      .    -,,  Tudge  Ebenezer  Pocic.  Rev.  Jeremiah  Po.ter,  and  the  nam-.: veie   received;   Extracts  from  CJdcui^o  Tribuji^  &nd.  Eveninf,    Jo^rnai,    -. viih   rame,  date  of  arrival,   birthplace,  age,  and  present  address.       Co.n\p->
Ientwokth.      Pp.  90;
8yo.
1870.
fals  of  Fort  YVlackinac:  Its  Legends,  Early  History,  aBcl  Events,  witli tiiiih.  and  Air.erican  Miliiary'  and  Crvii  Ofncers,  Priests,  roid  Marriages,  etc.,  t-c CELToV:,  U.-S   Aoiiy.     lUusfated.     Pages  102;  8vo.
iSSv..
Club,  May  27,
invited;  Secepturu. , ;..\ton.  Judge  Hen/>
.   ^^LVutg   ScaKiJll(.vS,:,
-'^.tended  rkU
isGoin,  M.'4.!,-
;n  brief  letteys
-u   .Register. of  Ok'
ed  by   Hon.  Joe:-
Price/50  centi.
list  of  Frends,
}:<y  Lietit.  D.   H
Price,  50  c£i:ti.
I  Gentle  Shepherd.     A  Pastoral  Comedy.     By  Ai.iA;s' I  the  Author,  and  a  Glossary  of  Scottish.  Words,     Pages  96;  24UiO.
Ramsay.     Wii.h
iSSs,';  ,  ;?aper/:'3  ■:
5,hort;  Sketc: .     Cloth,  30  Co
FERGUS'  HISTORICAL  SEHIES— Contiatied  from  last  piige ;
go
Ri^
«er-<
ai:J  7.  ifcj
IS.
nd- Harbor  Convention;
7.  Ail  Ace  ju'.t  of  its  Origin  aad .  MosLEV  IlALL'.TK-rtrait),  John L  L1S.LE  Smith,  Horace  Grk?:-
d:  r..id  a  List  of  .Delegates:  10- cor.cermijg  Chicago,  cy  JfaSSE
-.2^  L.  B.^XTON.  Coaipiled  by Pp.  2c8;  S>o.     1882.     PricC;  %i..
\  _  10.
iminiscences  of  Early  Chicago  (1833). By  Qii.KRi.L'i,  Clkavek.    Pp-  52;  £'>'o.    1^32.    25  cts.
20.
By  CiiAS.  Fl.n-  o
or,,  1835.     Reprint,  with is  so.     1882.     Price,  50c.
■«V4rjt?r  in  th?;  West, r.  Lor.d
^  ax.
iton,  LL.D.,  ex-Cbief-Jastice
f'p.  48;  livo.  .c  '::•-•
^collections  of  Early  Chicago  aijd  the jlUiciais  B'^r.     By  Hon.  Isaac  N.  AK.soi-r.;.     Kc.^J ;T»t«;,day  ilvcr.ine,  June  to,  liiio, leconcctiorii  af  the  Beach  and  Bar  of  C
!1':;    ->;.,.        ;   V   Hou.  JaMIu'^.  C.  CoMKLiHG,  of
-iM   a  Pioneer.      By   Hon.   ThOM/.r*
^bn  Dean  Cj
tof   liJir,!s
^OflE;-:
Hon.   Tohn   Wentv/orth*
s    Cong.Tessioi:;.-..;
Pr.-,^%-;:-:nces,     Sketche- -
i  ill.  Ouincy  Adai;;.;
;.rit.oa,  Johr.  .
\  Hojiry  C-.:v.
:                          .  irlistor.     Ar
.;.;d  before  11.
^..hv,.:             ..oricai  Socieiv,  .
,.   ..I  Music-Hii
Thursoay  i^.ve.,  March  16,  ic.:.
i.      v..;:hati  Ax-l)—:-.
and  a  compk^tf!  Index.     Pp.  ic
-•:  bvc.    .ig82.     75-'^
S5frv„
Chicago  Business  .Direc
tor/  and  SiSti.:-
tics  for  ibdO.     By  J.  W    >
oKi^'iv.      Revised  '.,
currectcd  by  Robekt  Ferg.
;:..     Xcnrin'.      r■i.^    :
Svo.     33H4.
Pnrv,  .5<>  ^;cL-.^
SCI-
Aborigines  of  the   Ohl
•  ■"••■■■  ^ky;    A  ]Ji.
couv.'^e  p-'  pared  in  iF??:  '
■  \i  Of  the  li^'.
torica!    S-^-iciy    cf    Ohv
li.iAH    Hr-^,.
HAKRfKON,   .'Maj.-Gen,    '.
•'ro'"/;.-'.-
the  Uuin:-!  States,  etc.
EvEr'ETT,  .niid  an  Appc-
Speecher^  ri  :iiY<:red  in  C* :.
Sept.  -4.  i".'3,  by  Chief-   ■
answer  t.  Gen.  Ilarn-o^,
rit.jrv,   It-..;   a'.'^o,   Koiai;-
M.afin»vs,  and  Custor:
Indians,  from  WSS.,  :;•
\,xu\n\'.  of  C.'iT.n.  Wiiliarrt
;;  Xntfuduv:
r.ndNoutrf  by  H.  W.  Be..  .
u6j  fcvo.    1';:
;-ico;  «<i  !.<■•:
RELATING  TO  CHiCAGG  AND
Fere-.
=  uni,  jap.    -
£5Q..  RepiK:
i  S.O,  with.  3  a
..  1876:  and.
.  in  tbs  {.". ;
:oty  of  th??
3,
the  Illinois :
itoirias:   A  i,-c
jricaJ  Society,  L't
"^-?.-ries:  A  T-
-"Natural  :;7.
'"AN   Ca-:xo
-  ,     Vp.  56;  8v..
4-
;nl  in  iliinc
ry:  An  III-;
JioTrc.
^'r^■  r--
iT  of  the  Ch!.: Vy  Hon.  V.a;.
^retches  o:
'  I:— Hon.  ;•
Maxwell,  ]'■':■
;  .-^vis  C.  Kzr-: :.:
..-'cs.  and  Sherjf'  c
^7-LL.     Pp.  40;  Svo
l:   Sketches    :f
^Part  II:--i:cn    \ '''.  P.ayTTionc!,  E-'- -n.  Chas.  V/ali',., .  Svo.     1876.
fiaU,  Nfay  Tth,  \
=d  Lecture-      i,j
:r«iU-    Fj»,  56,  8vo.
S. i.:?o:  A  Sundav
FTall,  April   11,  ';
ist  Lecture      i  ,
r.i:.     Pp.43:  3'.-'
;^::ure  read  before u  iSiO.  By  Joseph :;b^d  from  the  ori^i- I-;;iodvction,  writt .  ; ^i.iT.,  3.  Review  of vj^'j  Tribune,  in  . Price,  25  g:--
Z\Xy  of  Chicago,
' -cers,    Ch-^rch-s.
list  of  Sheriff^
-  City  since  their
Cst  of  the  Firs.
■ }.     List  of  Pu>-
-  dician,  the  No.
etc.     (Histcri-
.ectorv-  cf  .v?!3,
/;.  ^Pp.  68;  GvS.
Price,  50  cer.t?.
and  a  Sketch  of
;  ;;-  x-ead  before  the ■--.  13,  1870.  Also, rtv.re  read  before  the i;n;.es,  Dec.  30,  iSoo. ^-,  LL.D..  ex-Chief- :;:75.    Price,  ?3  cix
is  for  the  .Leg-al"
)  icrJ  Sketch  read  at ■.?o  Historical  Socie- rJ.  BsowN.    Pp.  3-; Price,  25  ce:;ts.
'  Early  Settlers
>.  j..Ls.'«  Stnith,  Geo.
•  n  f  Brown,  Ricli.-.rd .--..,  UrlaLP.  Harri?,
.-\ij;:i  J.  Lowe,    By >>-5.    Pri;e,  25Ci.s.
^■:.-a-Iy  Settlers
•  r.-  H.  Brrwn,  with .  -.:1.  Por'-rait,  H.;n. il  V  Tho-s.  Church,
Price,  25  cent";.
'  lecture  read  in
•-■'  i.      With  Supple-
-.r„  John  Wekt-
-76.    Price,  35  ct5.
■  cture  read  in .      With  Snpple-
■  Ti.  John  Went-
■  :-^.    Price,  35  cti.
A  Cbicac; Lyceum,  j ■.N,   author
'Strange  .'^..^.r;/  Days."  Pv .AC-,  autS  -.r  0.'  "  '//d^ty  iji  Ansci- ivo.     1876  Price,  25  cci.i:,.
10.
Col   Johr    ''
KlNZTE    Jl
aud  oth'^'-  La. -     ShaboiK  e,  a  H<    *" snd  Oth'^"^  ITi  -1 ^^:xrly  C  »   .>.
.-vany  Medic! Sketch  ot  ta° thePrcffc.     " ganisati^ J  AMES  1^ numeroi Pro.fsssoi    J   ^ -Daniel  Bra'  i^id
IHinois  111  t'  .. apd  its   Fa'^i  '
-  tha  Chicago  H
Old  Fort  Chif»rt< cago  Ki->tO'-  r  ' gram  of  Fort
.CoL  John  Tocc' hefore  the  Chi By  Ed%vard  G     '
<OIS.
by   hib   V   '  rw
I-inie'-re,  I <--';    rtho,  of
\    1  DE  bif'O  ^ )Ti2:inal    '^1'^  y
1 1. '  -.  cago :   />
t    \Ltit"^ne'- ird  Gi-^c' !  C)U  >
.    ^A    Svo     1  -^  1  H(
''5  Cern' "f .— Kaska^kl
(  Socket  (T   p  c   I  ,  t-3y^      «■
'^   Piper  reid  b'<.
V        JU    11^     11.  eK
ror>2   Boc. 1  ..  ri'^'l  Soc      V \.oN     pp  t,8    ^^o 13. RecoIle<tion-  of  E^srly   III Noted  Me'i  .  ^^    i    Jo-i '
wardsville       R'    1      "'ore    ^'"e    ' Society,  Mar<  n         r^-  ^      \S,  th  P Govs.    Pex-iinl'v.     n(j    Ei-5..s  ^,  ard Pp.  52;  Svo.     !„->■.
The  Earliest  Rel  ^ioa^Hjc^  ->
ByRov.  jE^r   i   \       '  r-^bji AaAddTc-jjr;,-'^ -^      r^th-^f-         1 F.;ai'ly  History  t  >  -  •>  ^      1 1
-Brown.     A  I  -         d
ceum,  D^-c  S,  iv,  o
Early   Society   ^      w    -ti '"tu   i' Ro£;e;rt  W    P  j  '    O    ^
before  thf  CI Ji^i    j  In    inc<  I     c^
Reminiscence'?  cf Ago:  Lincoln       ' By  Hon.  i'='\  \ Bar  Associ-tiOi)
First  Murt*er-Ti    t der  itt  Cool:  Co
Abraham  Lm  .>
Royal    Histon<  ^» By  Hon,  Is  \  \' Stephen  Arnold  L before  the  C  i<^ r86r.     By  Hr       ) Tnhifte.    iS8r
T     f
''V  d,  },ir\         1 .1      3  o     r*  !-•
A  Paper  re*  1  I-cj-^j*
ly    A. .;  irk         /
cv\01  D,  of  <.
i.s      Ar  L
■-■-  '-ly  Chicafr.
.-  read   i*^
"    T
"C;t!umet-C'u'   k
f    L<    D .   WniW
to  Tbt   wi
vVm.  B.  Ogd^' ',  < in  Chicae  >
i-'"fo.'-e  th*
{fon.  J.  V Forl«l  r
3  7.
of  Wsr Pp   7
o.^    0<^
f?.»J,"V
.^Sii^o
;fet:3U0^©t0^oricaf-i'#erte5
4-t-*^4-Ar*4-4^t^t-^^4^'^**-**     \\  k\  L  U  II  iS  4-  ILi  L^i  LiJ  I  IL^LIi,  ^  ^r::^' {''J  tihTJl^  *>*^+^*  +  *-^
*^|IumScr  Uiv>cnU)'0'^t)i'^-
■•*  ♦■♦-♦--♦->-♦^♦>-♦•*<'-♦-^♦+-^>■^-♦•  >■♦-♦-*♦•*•♦■»■*•*■♦•«♦-*<--♦'■■*■-♦•  >♦>-4-^-^-^-♦-^  ■»■-«•  ■*<-»i-f  <"V->-^-*-^*-t-->i..«--* -4- *•<--!
^Ch
I  V*'  <L^  <X^  \>  l4     >f/    a  I     %^  v^^   -^w  V>  AS        f        \
i3^^    M--^^
..,^.  ^4»>  ^'^„A'i.»^4~
*■»•♦-♦■-»■♦•■♦  f  ♦-♦-♦■♦-♦■•«-♦■  ^ -»■-♦■  ♦■•^♦-^♦-♦^■♦-■f  •♦■♦■-♦'-t- ♦■-♦■■♦•  >-f -♦■-♦•-♦- ♦-♦-♦■♦■>-«►■♦-»•♦-♦- -t-"*-*--*--^  ♦-(■•*■>■»■♦ -*»'■»- T^-  "^-f  <
•t  -.  *  •■■  f  ^  ^- .
4
C|  /f
^1
fi £
5&^
By  ROBERT    FERGUS,  Printer.
•ip'.i,''*
^'  For  Catalogue,  See  Inside  and  Last  Pages  of  Cover.
FERGUS    PRINTiMG    CCMHANY,    CHICAGO.
(REYNOLDS'.  PIONEER  HISTORY  OF  ILLINOIS. ijs^ining  the  Discovery  in  1673  and  the  History  of  the  Country  to  the  year  181S,
«■>:•;&  the  Slate  Governmeiu  -^vas  crgJinized.  By  John  Rf.vxolds,  late  Governor  of  Illinois,  Mern;  ur  f (     ■ -^ess.  >t2ie  Sen^itor,  and  Representaiive.  etc .  Beiieviile,  111.,  1352.     Reprinted  from  the  original  editi':-,
-:h  have  been  added  Nctes  and  a  complete  Index.     Portraits.     Page.?  .>59-  Svo.     Cloth  Boards,"  ins;;-.:: ;
.  Paper.  "  Price,  $:~..v-
{REYNOLDS')    MY    OWN    TIMES. History  of  Illinois;]  Embracing  also  The  History  of  My  Life.    Ey  John  Reynolds,  laie
r..-_  ■    ^f  III.,  etc.     Ponrait.     Reprint  of  original  edition  of  1S55.  with  ccinplcte  Index  added.     Cloth  boaT^!>--: ::->:  Side  and  bottom  uncut;  Antique  Paper;  Pp   42-J:  Svo.      1S79.     Edition  cf  112  copies.     Price,  St-FP-
THE    MARTYRDOM    OF    LOVEjOY. account  of  the  Life,  Trials,  and  Perils  of  Kev.  Elijah  P.  Lovejoy,  killed  by  a  Pro- Slavery-  Mob,  St  Alton,  111...  on  the  inght  of  Nov.  7,  1S37.     Ey  Henry  Tannes,  of  BuffalOj  N.-V. ,  an  Eye- Witiiess.     Cloth  boards;  Gilt-top;  Side  and  bottom  uncut:  Illustrated,  Pp.  2^^:  Svo.     iSSr.  Price,  Si.
CHICAGO    ANTIQUITIES, mprising  Original  Items  and  Relations,  Letters,  Extracts,  and  Notes,  pertainir'g'
to  Eariv  Chicago;  embellished  v.ith  VieNv>,  Portraits   Autographs,  etc.     By  Henry  H.  Hurlblt.     iI::-
  Pp.  673;  Svo.     Cloth;  Gik-top.     Price,  $-.;o
(Vol.  I.!  HISTORY  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SETTLEMENT
Edwards  County,  Illinois:  Founded  by  Moriis  Eirkbeck  (porcrait)  and  George  Flo-^vfr <pcr:rait),  in  1817  and  181S.  Ey  G£OF;ge  Flo'V.-er.  With  Preface  and  Foot-Notes  by  Hon.  E.  B.  vV-v<H- BV.sNE.    Complete  Subject  and  Pcr-onal  Indexes.    Cloth  Boards;  uncut.    Pag--S  40S;  Svo.    1882.    Price,  ?5  00
(Vol.  ID  SKETCH  OF  ENOCH  LONG  (portrait).
Illinois  Pioneer.  Cloth;  uncut.       Pages  112;  Svo.       18S4.  Price,  $2.co
(Vol.  III.)  THE  EDWARDS  PAPERS.
ing  a  Portion  of  the  Coll.  of  the  MSS.  cf  Ninian  Edwards,  C.-J.  of  Ct.  of  Appeals
of  Ky. :  f.rst  and  oiily  gov.  of  lil.  I'y;  one  of  the  first  two  U.  S.  senators  and  third  gov.  of  111.  Prefientid to  the  Chic.  Hist.  Soc..  Ort.  i6ih,  iit3.  by  his  son,  N.  W.  Edwards.  ex-Atr'y-Gen.  of  111.  Edited  by  Hoa. E.  B.  W.K.SKBLR.NE.  With  Steel  Portraits  of  Gov.  Ed\vards  and  Dan'l  P.  Cock;  and  20  fac-simiie  (I'ch.- £rapb)  letters.     Complete  Index.     Cloth  boards;  uncut.     Pages  631;  Svo.     1S84,  Price,  ^u  00
(Vol.  IV.)  EARLY  CHICAGO   AND   ILLINOIS
itches  of  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard,  Isaac  N.  Arnold,  E.  B.  Washburne,  Mark  Skinner. S;-  ufl  Stone,  Pierre  Menard,  Philo  Carpenter,  etc.,  etc..  with  Portraits,     Complete  Index.
Cloth;  uncut.     Pages  521;  Svo.     18S9.  Price,  S5.  :o
e  Tov/ne-Family  Memorial.     Compiled  from  the  New-England  Historical  and  Genea-
Jog'cal  P..egister.  lov»ne  Manuscripts,  Public  and  Family  Records;  for  A.  N.  Towue,  San  Francisco,  Cil. By  i:  :jv.  i.N    Huee.'.p.u.     Pp.  124;  Svo.     18S0.  Paper,  Si.c^-
e  Powers  Family:  A  Gen.  and  Hist.  Record  of  "Walter  Power  and  some  of  his  Descci.d- antj  to  t^e  Ninih  Generation.     Compiled  by  Amos  H.  Powers.     Pp.  200;  Svo.     1S84.  Cloth,  £;-...;<:'
e  Goodrich -Family  Memorial.     (Part  Two.)     Containing  the  American  History  and
F'-ur  Generations  of  the  Dtbcendanis  of  William  and  Sarah  (Marvin)  Goodrich  of  \Vetlren>held,  Con  ; Cof.-ipiled  by  Edwin   Hllbard.     Pp.  102;  Svo.     1884.  Paper,  I--:.o>.;
e  Hollister  Family  of  America.      Lieut.   John   ITollister  of  Wethersfield,  Conn,,  r^ni
D<-.-:'::::dant:=,     Compiled  by  L.  W.  Case,  M.D.     Pp.  805:  dvo.      iSSo,
Sheets,  $6;   Cloth,  $6.75;  half  Morocco,  $8;  full  Morocco,  $10.
t  Goodrich  Family  in  America.     A  Genealogy  of  the  Descendants  of  John  and  Wi'j.
Oo'-.drich  ".f  Wethersfield,  Conn..  Pii  hard  Goodrich  of  Guilfi  rd.  Conn.,  and  \\':n.  Goodridge  of  W:!t'.'n..'vn, Ma^s.,  together  with  a  short  Historical  Account  of  the  Family  in  England,  the.  Origin  of  the  Name.  .^ r)e-:.nption  of  Goodrich  Castle,  etc.  Edited  for  the  Goodrirh-Family-Memorial  A^s'/ciation,  bv  L.  Vv'.  C.\SH. M.D.     Portraits.     Pp.  380  and  liide.x;  Svo.     1888.        Sheel^,  S5;  Cloth,  $5.50;  half  Men,  $7;' full  M-or,.  i.;-
CHICKAMAUGA. ted  Battles   for  the  Union  during  the  Civil  War  in  the  United   States  of  Anierica.
i;  .-=       By  J.oKN  P.   TfRCHiN  (po;:raii;,  late  brigadier-general  United-States  Volunteers,  formerly  Coi'.::':i
General  Staff  (^Etat-Major)  in  the  Imperial  Guards  of  l^.ussia.     With   Rosters  of  Army  of  thr.  C'i''>:
:  and  Army  of  the  Tennessee;  strength  and  losses  of  each  armv;  and  a  complete  Inde.v.     lilustraitd
•    -Maps.  ■        Pp.  2^5:  8vo.     Cloth  Boards:  uncut.     rS88.         Price,  $:    •••
ILLINOIS-   HISTORICAL  AND   STATISTICAL, rnpnsing  the  essential   facts  of  its  Planting  and   Growth  as  a  Province,  Couni;
Krr.t'iy,  cud  St.'itr.     I)erived  from  'he  most  authentic  f^oun.'.s,  including  Original  Documents  and   P..<(-. . *    ■■''    r  with  carefully-prepared  '-jtati.stical  Tables  relating  Vi  Population.  Financial  Administration,  l-^^
fogres-.  Internal  Growth,   Political   and   Wiliury  Events.      By  John   M'j;E,r,  ex-County  .fuU;-'--
-o.,  etc     Illustrated;  and  a  compl'te  Index.     Pp,  13^3:  2vo.     1896.
-.{
FERGUS'    HISTORICAL    S  E  R  I  K  S,    No.   2  8.
DIRECTORY
OF   T}IE
CITY  OF  CHICAGO
ILLINOIS,
FOR
184^3
COMPILED   BY
ROBERT  FERGUS,  Printer,
A  Resident  of  Chicago  since  July  i,  1839.
CHICAGO: FERGUS    FRETTING   COMPANY,
N.W,  Cor.  Illinofs  St.  and  Dearborn  Ave.  ,
1896.
-.mI'
J.U,7/    u
!hV
INTRODUCTORY.
THE  cordial  reception  and  flattering  endorsements  given  in 1876  to  the  Directory  for  1S39,  by  many  of  Chicago's oldest,  well-known,  and  best-informed  citizens,  induced  the compiler  to  undertake  and  to  complete  this  little  volume,  begun over  twenty  years  since,  with  the  hope  that  it  may  be  as  well received.
The  occupations  given  herein  of  many  is  no  criterion  as  to their  ability  to  follow  other  vocations.  A  graduate  of  Oxford, Eaton,  Dublin,  or  Harvard,  a  lawyer  without  acquaintance,  a poet,  artist,  and  many  similar  professions  would  at  that  time  find it  difficult  to  obtain  a  livelihood,  as  all  such  were  of  \ery  little use  in  our  then  embryo  city.
The  basis  for  this  work  was  Chicago's  first  Directory  of  1844^ printed  and  published  by  Ellis  &  Fergus,  from  a  careless  and indifferent  canvass  made  during  1843 — August  to  December,  by James  W.  Norris,  and  issued  in  December  of  that  year.
One  of  the  pubHshers,  William  Ellis  who  did  the  presswcrk of  that  volume,  has  been  dead  several  years;  the  other  is  still here,  and  as  he  set  the  type,  he  knows  how  much  he  did  for it  and  how  much  worse  it  would  have  been  had  he  followed copy;  but  having  been  here  over  four  years,  he  was  somewhat acquainted  with  the  business  people  in  and  about  the  business centre  and  in  the  vicinity  of  his  home;  the  others — newcomers and  those  outside  of  the  central  part — he  could  do  nothing  for; and,  as  he  later  discovered,  sailors  were  made  tailors,  and  tailors sailors,  names   were   spelled  at  and  locations  guessed,  etc.;   in
.  /
r  
4  INTRODUCTORY.
fact,  the  names  of  many  prominent  men  were  entirely  omitted, or  as  inserted  might  as  well  have  been,  as  those  for  whom  they were  intended  could  not  recognize  them.
Some  of  the  dates  of  death,  as  herein  given,  have  been  found to  conflict  with  those  of  interested  parties  and  relatives;  but  so far,  in  every  instance,  on  investigation  they  have  been  found  to be  correct.  The  identity  of  the  dates  of  many  of  those  known to  be  dead  has  been  difficult,  and  several  instances  have  occurred where  more  than  one  date  applies  to  the  same  name,  and  until identified  will  not  be  inserted.
That  all  errors  are  now  corrected,  all  omitted  names  inserted, or  that  new  errors  have  not  been  made,  is  not  claimed;  but, with  the  additions  and  alterations  herein  made,  it  is  believed  to be  very  much  improved;  and  if  those  who  can  will  assist  in  this labor  of  love  by  forwarding  as  early  as  possible  for  the  next edition  any  correction  or  error  they  may  discover  or  any  omis- sion they  may  know  of,  they  will  no  doubt  tave  the  thanks  of posterity,  but  certainly  tiiose  of  your  humble  servant,
Robert  Fergus,  Compiler. Chicago,  August  4,  1896.
(My  8i5t  Birthday.)
If  YOU  can  supply. an  omission,  correct  a
name,  add  a  date  or  a  number,  please   forward    same  for insertion  in  a  later  edition,  to
ROBERT    FERGUS,  Compiler, Blanks  furnished  on  application.        185  Illinois  St.,  Chicago.
Chicago  Directory — 184
CITY,  COUNTY,  STATE,   AND    U.-S.  OFFICERS,    SCHOOLS, CHURCHES,  SOCIETIES,  STATISTICS,  ETC.
City  Officers: Augustus  Garreti',  Mayor.
Common  Council  for  1843: Aldermkx.
1st  Ward — Cyrenius  Beers,
Hugh  Thompson  Dickey. 2d  Ward — Jason  McCord,
Charles  Sauter. 3d  Ward — Charles  Taylor,
Azel  Peck.
4tli  Ward — John  Murphy,
Wm.  S.  Warner,
5th  Ward — Samuel  Greer, John  Cruver.
6th  V/ard — George  W.  Dole, Joseph  Marback.
Officers  of  the   Corporation  :
James  M.  Lowe,  Clerk. Walcer  S.  Gurnee,   Treasurer. Henry  Brov.n,  Attorney.
Health  Officer.
Collector.
Marshal.
Wm.  Wesencraft,
Orson  Smith,
(  Street  Co7>imissioner. Asa  Y .  Bradley,  Surveyor. William  II.  Brown,  School  A i^oit. Shubael  D.  Childs,  Sealer  of  Weights
and  Measures.  \  Chicai^o  Democrat,  Official  Paper,
Board  of  Health- X\xg.  Garrett,  Prest. Jeremiah  Price, Walter  1^.  Newberry, William  Jones,
Police  Constables— Henry  Khines,
Plugh  ]v.  Henry,
Inspector  of  Beef  and  Pork — 1  Archibald  Clybourn.
Courts  and  Officers  of  Cook  County:
COUN'IY-CO.MMISSIOXEKS'    COURT  :
S.  M.  Salisbury,
Francis  Cornwell  Sherman,
Jason  McCord, Georee  Davis,  Clerk.
Terms — ist  Mondays  of  March,  June,  September,  and  December.
Frederick  A.  Howe, Henry  L.  Rucker,
justicp:s  of  the  i-eace:
Louis  C.  Kercheval, Valentine  Armand  Boyer.
I'ROIiATE    COURT: Mahlon  Dickerson  Ogdcn,  Justice.
I   {
'  OOilO.
i:,.;;.;-vji.f
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,  1 843.
SUPREME    COURT:
William  Wilson,  Chief  Justice.
Associate  Justices: Samuel  D.  Lockwood,  |  John  Dean  Caton,
Thomas  C.  Browne,  Richard  M.  Young,  v  '  -     ■       -
"Walter  Bennett  Scates,  !  James  Shields,  .'■.;-
Samuel  H.  Treat,  Jesse  Burgess  Thomas,  (jr.),
J.  Young  Scammon,  Reporter-.  \  Ebenezer  Peck,  Clerk,
CIRCUIT    COURT:
Richard  M.  Young,  Judge. Samuel  Hoard,  Clerk.  j  Mark  Skinner,  Master  in  CJcuucery.
Te:rms — 4th  iMonday  of  March;  3d  Monday  of  Aug.;   ist  ISlonday  of  Nov, County  Officers  :  (
Samuel  J.  Lowe,  Sheriff.
Wm.  H.  Davis,    )  y^       *     ci      -o- iT  T>i--  '  Deputy  Sheriffs.
Henry  Rhmes,       \        ^    ^
Edward  Murphy,  Coroner.
Wm.  Bradshaw  Egan,  Ivecorder.
Anton  Getzler,  Assessor  &  Treasurer.
Asa  Foster  Bradley,  Surveyor. Geo.  ^Nlanierre,  School  Commissioner, Parker  M.  Cole,  Poor  Master. Seth  Otis,  Poor-House  Keeper. Alfred  W.  Davisson,  Physician. Archibald  Clybourn,  Inspector,   '  ■
CONSTABLES  :
Henry  Cunningham,  I  Jeremiah  H.  Sullivan,
George  Brady,  Daniel  B.  Pleartt.
State  Officers: Thomas  Ford,  Governor.
John  Moore,  Lieutenant-Governor. Thompson  Campbell,  Sec'y  of  State. Wm.  Lee  D.  Ewing,  Auditor.
Milton  Carpenter,  Treasurer,
Jas.  Allen  McDougall,  Att'y-General.
James  Curtiss,  District-Attorney.
Notaries  Public
John  Benjamin  Franklin  Russell, Norman  Buel  Judd,
Alonzo  Huntington, Henry  Brown.
United-States  Officers: John  McLean,  Circuit-Judge. Nathaniel  Pope,  District-Judge. Justin  Butterfiekl,  District-Attorney. William  Prentiss,  Marshal. Jarnes  F.  Owings,  Clerk. John  Harris  Kinzie,  Register  Land-Office. George  L.  Ward,  Receiver  of  Land-Office.
John  Wentworth,  Member  of  Congreo.^  4th  Congressional  District. William  Stuart,  Postmaster.
John  McClellan,  Superintendent  Public  Works, Seth  Johnson,  Deputy-Collector  and  Inspector  of  Port, Charles  [>.  Schlatter,  ,Ag<,-nt  Chicago  Harbor. Silas  Meacham,  Light-house  Keeper.    .
:  y.,      /.    •       .      ;.    :   vU    .-10
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  7
Religious  Societies  and  Associations:
First  Presbyterian  Church,  Clark  vStreet,  between  Washington  and  Madison. — Rev.  Flavei  IJascom,  Pastor.  Number  of  congregation,  500.  Number  of communicants,  340.
Second  Presbyterian  Church,  Randolph  Street,  between  Clark  and  I^earborn. — Rev.  Robert  Wilson  Patterson,  Pastor.  Number  of  congregation,  300. Number  of  communicants,  60.
Unitarian  Church,  Washington  Street,  between  Clark  and  Dearborn. — Rev. Joseph  Harrington,  Pastor.  Number  of  congregation,  250.  N^umber  of communicants,  38.
Catholic  Church,  n.-w.  corner  Michigan  Avenue  and  Madison  Street.  Rt.- Rev.  Wm.  Quarters,  D.  P^.,  Rev.  Maurice  de  St.  Palais,  and  Rev.  Francis Joseph  Fischer,  Pastors.     Number  of  congregation,  2000.
The  new  Catholic  Church  at  the  s. -w,  corner  of  Wabash  Avenue  and  Madison Street  is  progressing  to  completion.  Dimensions — Length,  112  feet,  in- cluding 12  feet  portico;  ^vidth,  55  feet;  height  of  walls,  34  feet;  stone  foun- dation, 4  feet  from  the  ground.
First  Universalist  Society. — Rev,  Wm.  ?2.  Manley,  Pastor;  meets  in  the  Ilall of  the  Mechanics'  Institute.  Number  of  congregation,  175.  Number  of communicants,  43.
Baptist  Church,  s.-e.  corner  of  Washington  and  LaSalle  Streets. — Rev,  E.  H. Hamlin,  Pastor.  Number  of  congregation,  250.  Number  of  communi- cants, 140.
Baptist  Tabernacle  Church,  LaSalle  Street,  between  Randolph  and  Washing- ton, Rev.  Chas.  B.  Smith.,  Pastor.  Number  of  congregation,  250.  Num- ber of  communicants,  lOo.
St,  James' Church  (Protestant  Episcopal),  Cass  Street,  between  Michigan  and Illinois.  Church  erected  in  1837,  at  a  cost  of  about  $10,000. — Rev.  Wra. F.  Walker,  Rector.  Number  of  congregation,  300.  Number  of  commu- nicants, 90.
Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  s.-e.  comer  Clark  and  Washington  Streets;  new church,  s.-w.  corner  Randolph  and  Canal  Streets,  3d  ward. — Rev.  Abra- ham Hanson  and  Rev.  Luke  Hitchcock,  Pastors,  Number  of  congrega- tion, 600.      Number  of  communicants,  275.
Bethel  Society. — Building  erecting  on  N.  Dearborn  Street,  between  Kinzie and  N, -Water,     Rev.   \V,  Rowiatt,  Pastor.
Evangelical  Association  (German),  Wabash  Avenue,  n,-e.  coiner  Monroe  St. — Rev,  I'rederick  Wahl,  Pastor,  Number  of  congregation,  50.  Number of  communicants,  ^o.
German  I^utheran  Association  Church,  Illinois  Street,  5th  ward.
Society  of  the  New  Jerusalem — no  regular  ministry — meetings  fo in  the  City  Saloon.
Sunday-schools  are  attached  to  most  of  these  denominations.
J  J       i'J       J  •-•    J  .'HI!   /",
>..'fi/i    n99''/J^vl    ,1j  sl!^
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1  84^
Catholic  Library  Society :
Library  at  tlie  Catholic  Church.
Georize  Brown,  President.
Alfred  M.  Talley,  Vice-President. James  Carney,  Treasurer.
Charles  McDonnell,  Secretary. Janie.9  Kelly,  Librarian.
Chicago  Bible   Society : William  Hubbard  Brown,  President. Thomas  Butler  Carter,  Secretary.  j  George  W.  Merrill,  Treasurer.
Chicago  Sacred  Music  Society: Instituted  February  13,  1S42.
Benj.  Wright  Raymond,  President. Seth  Porter  Warner,     / Chas.  A.  Collier,  \
Benjamin  Smith,  Secretary.
Directors.
Thomas  Butler  Carter,  I'reasurer. Sidney  Sawyer,  )
Wrn.  Hubbard  Brown,  .  J^xec.  Com. Elijah  Smith,  )
Washington  Temperance  Society Members,  11 00. Louis  C.  Kercheval,  President. Theophilus  W.  Smith,  ist  \'ice-Prest. John  Davis,  2d  \'ice-President. Luther  Nichols,  3d  Vice-President. Henry  L.  Rucker,  Recording  Sec'y.
John  L.  Smith,  Assistant  Secretary.
James  Curriss,  Corresponding  Sec'y.
James  L.  Howe,  Treasurer.
Beni.  Wrii-ht  Raymond,  /  ,,
-.T-n-        t'7  '  .  Managers.
Wuliam  Harman,  \  ^
Catholic  Total  Abstinence  Society: Members,  500.      Under  the  direction  of  the  Catholic  clergy.
Mariners'  Temperance  Society:
Instituted  July  10,  1842.      Members,  271.
George  A.  Robb,  President.
Grant  Goodrich,  Vice-President. Capt.  Henry  Cortney,  Secretary. Capt.  Geo.  I'eterson,  ) Ambrose  B.  Gould,     ,  Floating  Com. David  Mcintosh,  )
Samuel  Geromc, John  Prindiville, T.  F.  Hunter, H.  Smith, Iver  Lawson,
Vigilance  Com.
Junior  Washington  Temperance  Society:
Organized  March  II,  1843.      Members,  118.
OFFICERS  :
James  A.  Martling,  Assistant  Sec'y. Asa  Covey,  Corresponding  Sec'y. William  H.  Scoville,  Treasurer. Reuben  B.  Heacock,    |
Edward  A.  Rucker,  President. Edward  Morey,  Ist  \'ice- President. Alfred  Scranton,  2d  Vice-President. William  Wayman,  3d  Vice-President David  D.  Griswold,  Recording  Sec'y
Richard  H.  Morey,      \
Managers.
Masonic  Lodge : Corner  of  [6]  Clark  and  [[45I  South- Water  Streets,  third  story.
.V"TV-!J  -.1.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843. Chicago  Lyceum :
Instituted  Dec.  2,  1S34.
Mark  Skinner, William  Jones, Silas  Meacliam, Geo.  W.  Meeker, John  B.  Weir,
Vice-Presidents.
Incorporated  Feb.  27,  1839.   ,  President.
George  Manierre,  Secretary.
John  Herbert  Foster,  Treasurer.
William  H.  Kennicott,  Librarian.
There  is  a  Library  of  400  volumes  belonging  to  this  Lyceum.
Young  Men's  Association:
Organized  1841.     Members,  206.
Ashley  Gilbert,  ^j
John  M.  Underwood,       j Cyrus  Mann,  j
Samuel  W.  Goss,  {
Laurin  Palmer  Hilliard,  | Joseph  £.  Brown,  J
Seth  T.  Otis,  President. Isaac  Newton  Arnold,  ist  Vice-Prest. William  M.  Larrabec,  2d  Vice-Prest. Ashley  Gilbert,  Recording  Secretary, David  S.  Lee,  Corresponding  Sec'y. Charles  R.  Vandercook,  Treasurer.
Manairers.
Reading- Room  and  Library  of  the  Association,  in  the  Saloon,  second  story, entrance  37  Clark  Street.
Public  lectures  are  provided  for  by  the  rules  of  the  Association,  and  are  had regularly  during  the  v^^inter  months.
From  the  rules  of  the  Association:  "Any  member  may  have  the  privilege  of introducing  strangers  to  the  rooms  of  the  Association,  by  registering  their names  in  a  book  to  be  kept  for  that  purpose;  and  such  strangers  shall  have free  access  to  the  rooms  of  the  Association  for  two  weeks  after  such  intro- duction.
"Any  person  may  have  access  to  the  rooms  of  the  Association  by  paying  there- fore fifty  cents  j>er  month."
Mechanics'  Institute : Organized  February  23,  1842.      Incorporated  1843. Ira  Miltinaore,  President.
Charles  M.  Gray
Members,  173.
James  M.  Adsit,  1st  Vice-President. Geo.  Franklin  Foster,  2d  Vice-Prest. John  B.  Weir,  Recording  .Secretary. John  Gage,  Corresponding  Secretary. John  Haight  Hodgson,  Treasurer. Horatio  Cook,  Librarian.
\ssistant  Librarian. Isaac  Lawrence  Milliken,  ^ Isaac  Speer,  j
E.  D.  Bates,  J-  Directors.
Bennct  Bailey, Elijah  Smith,
Hall  of  the  Mechanics'  Institute,  Saloea  Buildings,   third  story.     Entrance, 37  Clark  Street.
The  Mechanical   Department  of  the  Prairie  Far?ner,  John  Gage,  editor,   is under  the  direction  of  the  Institute.
The  LiVjrary  Room  of  the  Institute  in  an  adjoining  room,  as  accession  has recently  been  made  to  this  library.
^.1
v.!  r-t^i.
\H    ,i[:n.ii.i  hm:"!-'..  yn
'.)  -■  l!i','f>I  Vtl    f-
:     -U-iiU^^lA
•••,.!    .K-
10  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.
Chicago  Repeal  Association.
William  Bradshaw  Egan,  President. Lewis  C.  Kerclieval,  Vice-President,     j  Charles  McDonnell,  Secretary. Henry  L.  Rucker,  Correspond.  Sec'y.  [  James  Carney,  Treasurer.
Young  Men's  Lyceum.
Instituted  September  25,  1843,  ■
David  D.  Griswold,  President.  |  Edwin  C.  Stowe,  Vice-Piesident.
\Yil!iara  H.  Scoville,  Secretary.  [  Edward  More)'',  Treasurer.
Hydraulic  Company. Capita],  $200,000.
Buckner  Smith  Morris,  President.  Directors — Benj.  AYright  Raymond,
Lemuel  Covell  Paine  Freer,  Scc'y.  Walter  Smith  Gurnee,
Alexander  Brand,  Treasurer.  Stephen  Francis  Gale,
Smith  Jones  Sherwood, Applications  for  water  to  be  made  to  Smith  J.  Sherwood,  144  Lake  Street.
Union  Agricultural  Society:
President,  Lewis  Ellsworth  of  DuPage,
Vice-Presidents:
Samuel  Goodrich  of  DuPage, Robert  Strong  of  Will, James  McClellan  of  Kendall.
Seth  Washburn  of  Lake, William  VanOsdel  of  McHenry, Shephard  Johnston  of  Kane, Joseph  Vial  of  Cook,
Matthias  Lane  r)unlap  of  Cook,  Recording  Secretary.
E.  W.  Brewster  of  Kane,  Corresponding  Secretary.
M.  If.  Demmond  of  Will,  Treasurer. Robert  Strong,  i  (  William  Smith,
Chester  Ingersoll,  >      Committee  on  Fairs,       •,  Edward  Perkins,
Jasper  Augustus  Gooding  )  (  all  of  Will.
Office  of  Prairie  Farmer,  112  Lake  Street.
Newspaper  Offices  and  Publication  Days:
Belter  Covenant,  Saturday;  Randolph   Street,   between  Wells  and  Franklin. Seth  Barnes,  editor  and  proprietor.
Chicai^o  Democrat,  Wednesday;   107  Lake  Street.     John  Wentworth,  editor and  proprietor.
Chicago  Express,  daily,   Tuesday,   weekly;    98    I>ake    Street.      W^illiam   W. Brackett,  editor  and  proprietor.
Northioestan  Baptist,  semi-monthly,  Titesday;  124  Lake  St.      I.  N.  Powell, editor.
Prairie  Farmer,  monthly;    112  Lake  Street.     John   S.  WTight  and  J.   Am- brose Wight,  editors.     Jolin  S.  Wright,  pro})rietor.
Western  Citizen,  Thursday;  124  Lake  Street.     Zebina  Eastman  and  Asa  B. Brown,  editors. .
'if    ihr.iiJiV/
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1 843.
II
Book  and  Job  Printing-Office : Ellis  [Will.]  &  Fergus  [Robert],  37  Clark  St.,  Saloon  Bldgs,  s.-e.  cor.  Lake.
Post-Office:
50  Clark  St.,  M'est  side,  bet.  Lake  and  Randolph.     Win.  Stuart,  Postmaster.
A  weekly  mail  from  the  East  was  received  here  on  horseback  in  1832 — Jonathan  Nash  Bailey  being  postmaster.  The  ne\t  year  it  was  received  in  a one-horse  wagon,  weekly — John  Stephen  Coates  Hogan,  postmaster. .  In 1833,  a  two-horse  wagon  was  substituted.  In  1834,  a  four-horse  stage  line was  established  semi-weekly;  tri-weekly  in  1835.  In  1837,  there  was  a  daily Eastern  mail — Sidney  Abell,  postmaster.  There  are  now  received  and  made up  at  this  office  forty-eight  mails  weekly,  and  the  receipts  of  the  office  amount to  about  $10,000.  The  following  statement  will  show  the  number  of  mails received  at  this  time  and  the  present  post-office  arrangements:
Great  Eastern — Arrives,  during  lake navi'^ation,  daily,  except  Tuesday, by  4  a.  m.  Closes  daily,  except Monday,  at  8 J. 2  a.m.  During  sus- pension of  navigation  arrives  daily, except  Monday,  by  4  a.m.  Closes  j daily,  except  Sunday,  at  S}4  a.m.
Michigan -City   Land   Mail — Arrives, during  lake  navigation,  every  Wed-  | nesday  by   10  a.  m.      Closes   every  ! Wednesday  at  2  p.m.  I
Southern  7'/a  Peoria— Arrives  daily,  : £\cept  Monday,  by  7  p.m.  Closes  , daily,  except  Sunday,  at  8  p.m.  i
Dixon  Z'ia  Aurora,  from  April  i  to  i Nov.  I — Arrives  Sunday,  Wednes-  j day,  and  I'riday  by  6  a.m.      Closes
p.m.  From  Dec.  i  to  April  I  — Arrives  Sunday,  Wednesday,  and Friday  by  5  p.m.  Closes  Monday, Wednesday,  and  Friday  at  8  p.m.
idihvaukee  (Wis.) — Arrives  Tuesday, Thursday,  and  Saturday  by  5  p.m. Closes  juiiday,  Tuesday,  and  Thurs- day at  8  p.m.
Janesville  (Wis.)  via  McPIenry,  111. — Arrives    Wednesday   by    2    p.  m. Closes  Thursday  at  9  a.m.
Thornton    2'/a    Blue    Island  — Arrives
every  Tuesday  by  4  p.m. every  Wednesday  at  9  a.m.
Office  closed  at  8  p.m.
Office  open :
Closes
Monday,    Wedne.sday,    and    I'riday  !  ^^'^om  March  I  to  May  i  at  yy^
at  8  p.m.  P'rom  Nov.  i  to  April  i  j — Arrives  Tuesday,  Thursday,  and  ' Saturday  by  6  p.m.  Closes  ."^unday, Tuesday,  and  Thursday  at  8  p.m. Galena  fia  Rockford,  from  April  I  to Dec.  I — Arrives  Tuesday,  Thursday, and  Saturday  by  8  p.  m.  Closes Sunday,  Tuesday,  and  Friday  at  8
May  I  to  Sept.  I  at  7  a.m. 11      Sept.  1  to  Nov.  I  at  7)<  a.m. II      Nov,  I  to  March  I  at  8  a.m.
On  Sundays: From  Oct.  i  to  April  i, from  8^  to  9J^  a.m.  and  4  to  5  p.m. From  April  i  to  Oct.  r,
from  8  to  9  a.m.  and  5  to  6  p.m.
Military  Companies  : Chicago  Guards:  1  Montgomery  Guards:
John  Benj.  Franklin  Russell,  Captain.  ]  Patrick  Kelly,  Captain. W^m.  M,  Larraljee,  1st  Lieutenant.       {  \Vm,  Bergen  Snowhook,  1st  Lieut. Frederick  A.  Howe,  2d  Lieutenant.      |  Henry  Cunningham,  2d  Lieutenant,
Michael  O'Brien,  3d  Lieutenant.
Jas.  Y.  .Sanger,  Captain. Samuel  N.  Davis,  ist  Lieutenant. Chas.  E.  Peck,  2d  Lieutenant.
Chicago  Cavalry:
I  Charles  G,
W^icker,  ^d  Lieutenant.
James  L.  Howe,  Cornet.
Chas.  L.  P.  Hogan,  Orderly  Sergeant.
!  I
lit  T
f..u/  ■  '!    .iri.r>''
II  'f    O
12
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1 843.
Chicago  Fire  Companies : Alson  S.  Sherman,  Chief-Engineer. Stephen  Francis  Gale,  1st  Assistant.      |  Alexander  Loyd,  2d  Assistant.
Engine  Company  No.  i : Ashley  Gilbert,  Foreman. Geo.  Franklin  Foster,  Ass't-Foreman. John  Calhoun,  Clerk  and  Treasurer. Alvin  Calhoun,,  Steward.
Engine  Company  No.  2: Sanford  Johnson,  Foreman. Ira  Coleman,  Assistant-Foreman. Austin  D.  Sturtevant,
Secretary  and  Treasurer.
Chicago  Fire-Bucket  Co.  No.  1 : Samuel  A.  Lowe,  Foreman. Francis  T.  Sherman,  Ass't-Foreman. Wm.  Harrison  Jones,  Clerk  and  Treas.
Hose  Company  No.  i : This  is  a  new  company.     No  election of  officers  has  yet  been  had.
Hook-and-Ladder  Co.  No.  i : Joseph  \V.  Hooker,  Foreman. Seth  Porter  Warner,  Ass't-Foreman, Jos.  L.  Hanson,  vSec'y  and  Treasurer. Jeremiah  Price,  Assistant-Secretary.
Chicago  Fire-Guard: Geo.  A.  Robb,  Foreman. Leroy  M.  Boyce,  Assistant-Foreman. David  S.  Lee,  Secretary. John  C.  Haines,  Treasurer. i  Ira  Couch,  Steward.
Rush  Medical  College :
Incorporated  by  the  Legi Board  of \Vm.  B.  Ogden,  Esq.,  President. Theophilus  W.  Smith,  Esq. James  H.  Collins,  Esq. Justin  Butterheld,  Esq. Edmund  S.  Kimberly,  M.D. Hon.  John  l)ean  Caton. Rev.  S.  S.  Whitman. John  Harris  Kinzie,  Esq. Edmund  Dick  Taylor,  Esq. Mark  Skinner,  Esq. John  Gage,  Esq.
.lature  of  Illinois  in  1837. Trustees :
Grant  Goodrich,  Esq.,  Secretary.
Julius  Wadsworth,  Esq.
Hugh  T.  Dickey,  Esq.
Walter  L.  Newberry,  Esq.
Geo.  \\\  Snow,  Esq.
Norman  Buel  Judd,  Esq.
£x  OOlcio: Hon.  Thomas  Ford,  Governor. Hon.  John  Moore,  Lieut.  Governor. Hon.  Sam'l  Hackleton,  Speaker  H.R.
Faculty : Daniel  Brainard,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Anatomy  and  Surgery. James  VanZant  Blaney,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Chemistry  and  Materia  Medica. John  McLean,  M.D.,  Professor  of  the  Theory  and  Practice  of  Medicine. M.  L.  Knapp,  M.D.,  Prof,  of  Obstetrics  and  Diseases  of  Women  and  Children. Alfred  W.  Davisson,  Prosector  to  the  Professor  of  Anatomy.
The  annual  course  of  Lectures  for  the  first  session  commenced  on  Monday, Dec.  4,  1S43,  ^nd  will  continue  sixteen  weeks.  The  sui^sequent  courses  will C'>n»mence  on  the  first  .Monday  of  November.  The  fees  are  as  follows:  Anat- omy and  Surgery,  $20;  Chemistry  and  Materia  Medica,  $20:  Theory  and Practice  of  .Medicine,  $ro;  Ot^stetrics  and  Di.-ea.>es  of  Women  and  Children, $10;  Dissecting  ticket,  $5;  Ciraduation  fee,  $20.  The  requirements  for  grad- u.-^tion  are:    three  years  study  with  a  respectable  physician,   two  courses  of
Jf.f.V.^-'A
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1 843.  1 3,
lectures,  one  of  which  must  be  in  this  institution  (or  two  years  practice  will be  received  in  lieu  of  one  course).  The  candidate  must  be  21  years  of  age, of  good  moral  character,  must  present  a  thesis  on  some  medical  subject  of  his own  composition,  and  in  his  own  handwriting,  which  shall  be  approved  by the  faculty;  and  pass  a  satisfactory  examination  on  all  the  branches  taught  in this  College.  Good  board  and  room  can  be  obtained  in  Chicago  at  from $1.50  to  $2  per  week.     This  institution  is  now  in  successful  operation.
City  Dispensary:
This  Institution  was  opened  in  connection  with  the  Rush  Medical  College, for  the  purpose  of  affording  relief  to  the  indigent  and  practical  instruction  to- medical  students.  It  is  located  in  the  wooden  building  on  the  east  side  of Clark  Street,  near  the  bridge.  Open  Mondays,  Tuesdays,  and  Fridays,  from 8/^  to  9>^  o'clock.  It  is  supported  by  voluntary  contributions  of  benevolent persons.
Common  Schools :
Inspectors:
William  Jones,  I  Mark  Skinner,
Jonathan  Young  Scammon,  |  William  Hubbard  Brown,
George  W.  Meeker,  j  Augustine  Deodat  Taylor.
Anton  Getzler,  I
^Vm.  Hubbard  Brown,  Agent  and  Treasurer  of  the  School  Fund. Teachers :
Samuel  C.  Bennett,  -  -  97  scholars.
Miss  Mary  B.  Bennett,  -  -       75  "
Austin  D.  Sturtevant,  -  -  130  n
Miss  V,  C.  Freer,         -  -  -       70  n
Francis  Field,  -  -  -  131  it
Alden  G.  Wilder,         -  -  -     130  ,.
Mrs.  Mary  E.  Warner,  -  -  no  ir
Miss  M.  Smith,  -  .     •.  -       75  "
Chicago  Female   Seminary:
Instituted  1843.  ^s"^-  ^-  ^^-  Henderson,  A.M.,  Principal.
The  object  of  this  Institution  is  to  give  young  ladies  a  thorough,  practical education,  to  develop  and  mould  the  character,  cultivate  the  manners,  and form  correct  habits.     A  Teachers'  Department  is  connected  with  the  Seminary.
It  is  located  on  the  comer  of  Clark  and  Washington  streets. Board  of  Visitors:
trie"  I,
School  I.
I,
M        2.
.,          2,
1.        I.
"        2,
II        2.
••       3,
M                 I.
M       4,
1.        I.
.,       4,
II          2.
•'        4,
••     3.
Rev.  P'lavel  Basccm,
Rev.  Robert  Wilson  Patterson,
Hon.  Benjamin  Wright  Raymond,
Henry  Brown,  Esq.,
James  H.  Collin.s,  Esq.,
William  Hubbard  Brown,  E'sq, Hon.  Isaac  Newton  Arnold, Hon.  Samuel  Hoard, Grant  Goodrich,  Esq.
f.'
Oil
U
14
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.
Population  of  the  City  of  Chicago,
According  to  the  Census  taken  by  Jas.  W.  Norris,  August  i,  1843,  under the  authority  of  the  Common  Council;  together  with  a  comparison  of this  with  the  census  of  former  periods.
Rkmarks. — The  following  census  was  taken  with  great  care  and  accuracy, all  persons  not  permanently  residing  in  the  City  being  in  every  instance excluded.  The  population  of  the  place  might  have  been  made  much  larger than  it  appears  to  be  by  the  result  of  this  census,  undoubtedly  S500  by  includ- ing a  class  of  transitory  persons,  which  it  is  customary  to  compute  as  a  part of  the  population  of  cities;  but  it  was  thought  advisable  to  base  the  present ■census  upon  a  pernianent  foundation;  the  census  of  subsequent  periods  will then  show  the  actual  amount  of  increase.  By  transitory  persons  are  to  be understood  persons  not  having  a  permanent  residence  in  either  of  the  wards of  the  City,  and  persons  living  here  but  absent  for  the  time  being — by  natives of  other  countries,  those  actually  born  abroad,  and  not  their  descendants,  who are  included  among  the  natives  of  this  country.  It  is  proper  to  remark  that a  great  increase  of  population  has  taken  place  since  the  date  of  this  census. The  present  population  exceeds  8000.
Males  :  Wards,
10  years  and  under, Over  10  and  under  21, Over  21  and  under  45, Over  45  and  under  60, Over  60,     .
Females  : 10  years  and  under, Over  10  and  under  21, Over  21  and  under  45, Over  45  and  under  60, Over  60,  .  .  .
Colored  males  under  21, Colored  males  over  21, Colored  females  under  21,     _ Colored  females  over  21,  .
1st.
2d.
3d.
4tli.
5th.
6th.
Totals.
245
284
57
65
100
257
1000
146
133
41
3^>
63
143
562
627
614
130
102
155
439
2067
25
39
7
8
9
40
128
5
8
2
2
0
10
27
3792
217
271
87
64
98
280
1017
186
183
31
27
37
166
630
398
3S4
94
73
106
338
1393
27
29
7
6
II
36
116
7
7
I
I
2
16
34
3190
2
6
0
0
0
4
12
9
M
2
2
0
3
30
3
4
0
0
0
3
10
2
9
0
0
0
2
13
65
Transient  })ersons,
Population  1843, Population  1S40,
Increase.
87     246       50
28
19     103       533       533
1986  2231     509     414     600  1840     75S0     75S0 1197   1467     251      179     436   1323     4853
789     76.4     258     235      164     517     2727
jVuniber  of  Iri^h,  _  .170  206  29
Germans  and  Norwegians,  104  217  32
Natives  of  other  countries,  _      134  156  80 Americans,       .          _
50 21
84
175  143 90  352 50  163
1578  1652  368  259  285  1182 AYhole  number  of  Families,  1177
773
816
667
5324
75S0
'^i^h/V
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1843,
15
Port  of  Chicago:
Capt.  Seth  Johnson,  Deputy  Collector  and  Inspector.
Revenue  Office,  38  Clark  Street.
The  following  tabular  statements  will  exhibit,  with  an  approach  to  accu- racy, the  amount  and  value  of  the  trade  of  Chicago  to  the  close  of  the  present year,  1S43.  -^  very  serious  difficulty  has  existed  heretofore  in  ascertaining the  actual  amount  of  exports  and  imports  of  the  place,  especially  the  exports, ■owing  to  the  fact  that  a  great  many  vessels  arrive  and  depart  during  the season  of  navigation  without  being  reported  at  the  Custom- House,  or  leaving any  evidence  of  the  character  and  amount  of  their  cargoes.  The  existence  of this  difficulty  was  more  particularly  set  forth  in  a  memorial  of  the  Common Council  to  Congress,  in  the  year  1840,  in  which  they  allow  a  deduction  of  one- third  from  the  amount  known,  to  be  added  for  the  amount  unknown.  It  has been  thought  advisable  in  the  following  statement  to  give  only  the  actual amount,  as  ascertained  from  record  in  the  revenue  office,  it  being  understood, from  the  above  explanation,  that  the  estimate  is  considerably  below  the  true amount:
Expo
^ts  :
Imports:
1836,
_
$1,000.64
1S36,
.
$325,203.90
1837,    -
_
_      11,065.00
1S37,      -
_
-     373,667.12
1838,
_
16,044.75
iS:;S,
_
579,174-61
1839,    -
.
-     33,843-00
1839,     -
_
.     630,980.26
1840,
_
228,635.74
1840,
_
562,106.20
1841,    -
.
.   348,362.24
1841,     -
_
.     564,347.88
1842,
-
659,305.20
1842,
-
664,347.88
Articles  Exported  d
L'RLNG    THE
Year
1842:
Wheat,     .
.
586,907  bushels.
Flour,
_
2,920  bbls.
Corn,  .
_
35,358       M
Beef,     .
_
.          .        762     ..
Oats,
_
53,486             M
Pork  and  Hams,
15,447    "
Peas,   .
.
484             M
Fish,     .
.
-       915     .-
Barley,      .
_
1,090      ..
Lard,
_
.     367,200  lbs.
Flax  Seed,
750      ••
Tallow,
_
151,300      M
Hides,  No.
of   .
-   6,947
Soap,
_
2,400  „
Brooms,  N
3.    of      .
5,587
Candles,
_
500  II
Maple  Sugar,     .
_  4,500  lbs.
Tobacco,  -
3,000  I.
Lead,
_
59,990     M
Butter,
24,200  t-
Feathers,  .
.
.   2,409  .,
Wool,        .
"
15,000  II
Furs  and  Peltries,
446  Packs.
Articles  Exported  d
URING    THE
Year
1843:
Wheat,      .
628,967  bushels.
'J'obacco,
.
74,900  pounds.
Corn,     _
_
2,443       "
Lead,      .
_
.   360,000     11
Oats,
3,7^^7       "
W-ool,
22,050     II
Flax  Seed,
.
1,920      ,.
Candles,
4,900     „
Pork,
11,112  barrels.
Soap,
.
5,300          M
Lard,     .
.
2,823       ..
Packages  P
urs.
393     •'
Beef,
10,380      11
Brooms,
.     180  dozen.
Tallow,
1,133       ••
Flour,     .
.      10,786  barrels.
Hides,  No.
of   .
14,536
?l
'-'I      '  '..iV    A'i]
l6  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.
Articles  Imported  during  the  Year  1843
Merchandise,  .         2,012  tons.
II  .  101,470  pl<:gs.
Salt,     -  -  -       27,038  barrels
Whiskey,  .  2,585      h
Lumber,         .  7,545,142  feet.
Shingles,       .  _     4,117,025 Square  timber,  .      16,600  feet.
Staves,  _  _  57,00c
Bark,        .  _  _  430  cords.
Vessels  arrived  and  cleared  during  the  years  1842-3:
Arrived.               Cleared.                Tot'il.  Aggregate  Torib.
1842,  .     .     .     705         705         1410  117,711   .
1843,  -     .     -   756         691         1447  289,852
A  number  of  vessels  left  port  this  year  without  being  reported.
During  the  present  season,  14,856  barrels  of  beef  have  been  packed  at  ihe several  packing  houses  in  the  City;  only  a  small  portion  of  this  has  l^een exported.  The  quantity  of  hides  and  tallow  is  not  known,  but  will  bear  a proportion  to  the  quantity  of  beef.  An  amount  of  pork  will  be  put  up  here the  coming  winter,  greatly  exceeding  any  former  season.  No  statement  in regard  to  this  department  can  be  made  in  this  connection,  as  the  business  is but  just  commencing.
M;    r.;!'    -r.
BUSINESS    DIRECTORY.
ATTORNEYS.
BEAUMONT  &  SKIXNER,  attorneys,  counsellors,  and  solicitors  in  chan- cery, Chicago,  III.     Geo.  A.  O.  Beaumont,  Mark  Skinner.
HENRV  BROWN,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  oftice  s.-w.  corner  of Lake  and  Dearborn  streets,  over  the  general  stage-office.
J.  BUTTERFIELD,  Jr.,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  and  land  agent, east  side  of  [5]  Clark  .Street,  first  door  from  South- Water.
HENRY  W.  CLARKE,  attorney,  counsellor  at  law,  solicitor  in  chancery, conveyancer  and  general  land-agent,  office,  38  Clark  St.,  opp.  City  Saloon.
JAMES  CURTIS.S,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  office  136  Lake  Street.
HUGH  T.  DICKEY,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  103^  Lake  St., Chicago.
FREER  &  DeWOLF,  attorneys  and  counsellors,  Chicago,  111.,  office  on Clark  St.,  opp.  City  Hotel.      Lemuel  Covell  Paine  Freer,  Calvin  DeWolf.
HAMILTON  &  CHAMBERLAINE'S  law  office,  Clark  St.,  opp.  Fost-Office.
A.  HUNTINGTON,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  98  Lake  St.,  Chicago. ALBERT  G.  LEARY,  advokat  und  Rechts-Rathgeber,  Chicago,  Cook  Co.,
Illinois,  office  and  house,  53  Clark  St.,  opposite  the  City  Hotel. MaNIERR12  &  MEEKER,  attorneys  and  counsellors  at  law  and  solicitors in  chancer)',  118  Lake  St.,  Chicago.      Geo.  Manierre,  Geo.   W.  Meeker.
B.  S.  MORRIS,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  office  Clark  Street,  opposite
City  Hotel.
J.  W,  NORRIS,  law  office,  Clark  Street,  opposite  City  Saloon.
P.  PHELPS,  law  and  chancery  office.  Dearborn  Street,  Chicago.
SCAMMON  Si  JUDD,  attorneys  and  counsellors  at  law,  office  123  Lake  St., City  Saloon.     Jonathan  Young  Scammon,  Norman  Buel  Judd.
SMITH  &  BALLING  ALL,  counsellors  atTaw,  Harmon  &  Loomis'  Build- ing, Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111.     Theophilus  W.  Smitli,  Patrick  Ballingall.
SPRING  &  GOODRICH,  attorneys  and  counsellors  at  law,  124  Lake  St., Chicago,  III.     Giles  Spring,  Grant  Goodrich,
AUCTIONEERS.
JOHN  BATES,  Jr.,  auction  and  commission  merchant,  174  Lake  St.,  Chicago. GEORGE  W.  GRIDLI"  Y,  auction  and  commission  merchant,  85  Lake  St. Parkier  &  dodge,  auctioneers  and icommission  merchants,  Clark  Street, Chicago,  III.     John  Parker,  John  C.  Dodge.
BANKERS  AND  BROKERS. J.  COE  CLARK,  exchange  broker,  Clark  St.,  2  doors  north  of  Lake,  e,  side.
{ ..
■•■  ;    i.i*-;.!
1 8  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,  1843.
MURRAY  &  BRAND,  private  bankers  and  exchange  broker?,  127  Lake Street.  Deposit  accounts  kept,  interest:  allowed  on  special  deposits, drafts  granted  and  money  collected  on  New  York,  Buffalo,  Cincinnati,. St.  Louis,  and  Detroit,  and  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  advances  on  pro- duce, etc.,  etc.     James  Murray,  Alex.  Brand.
GEORGE  SMITH  &  CO.,  bankers  and  insurance  brokers,  (bank  building)^ LaSalle  Street,  Chicago,  111.
RICHARD  K.  SWIFT  will  loan  money  on  bonds  and  mortgages  and  other undoubted  securities,  office  in  the  "Tremont  Buildings,"  2d  story,  over Clarke's  drug  store,  102  Lake  Street,  Chicago.
BILLIARD  ROOMS.
HATCH  &:  SHUR,  new  ball  alley  and  saloon,  choice  liquors  and  fresh  oys- ters, superior  to  any  in  the  City.      Heman  Hatch,  W.  Shur.
BILLIARD  SALOON,  west  side  of  Clark  Street,  over  J.  Johnson's  barber shop.     [James  L.  Dole.]
JOHN  F.  LESSEY  &  SAMUEL  WINEGAR,  new  billiard  saloon,  corner of  Dearborn  and  South-Water  streets,  Chicago,  111.
BOOKBINDERY.
J.  A.  HOISINGTON,  Chicago  bookbindery,  (late  Bowman  [Ariel]  &  Ross [Hugh]),  Saloon  Building,  corner  of  Lake  and  Clark  streets;  having taken  the  above  establishment,  is  prepared  to  execute  binding  in  all  its branches  with  neatness  and  dispatch.  N.  B. — All  orders  in  the  above business  thankfully  received  and  promptly  attended  to.
BOOTS,  SHOES,  ETC.
W.  H.  ADAMS  (5c  CO.,  manufacturers  and  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in boots,  shoes,  leather,  findings,  etc.,  138  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.
S.  B.  COLLINS  &  CO.,  boot,  shoe,  and  leather  dealers,  140  Lake  Street.
JOHONNOTT,  WELLS  &  CO.,  general  dealers  in  leather,  hides,  findings, oils,  etc.,  etc.,  159  Lake  Street,  new  buildings,  Chicago,  111.;  cash  paid for  hides.     E.  S.  Johonnott,  A.  Wells,  Alson  S,  Sherman.
J.  B.  MITCHELL,  custom  boot  and  shoe  maker,  east  side  Clark  Street, I)et\vecn  Lake  and  Water  streets,  Chicago.
C.  &  J.  SAUTER,  manufacturers  and  general  dealers  in  boots  and  shoes,  212 Lake  Street,  Chicago;  cash  paid  for  hides.
SOLOMON  TAYLOR,  boot  and  shoe  manufacturer,  gentlemen's  boots  and shoes;  ladies'  gaiters,  kid  slippers,  and  buskins;  misses',  boys',  and  chil- dren's boots  and  shoes  constantly  (;n  hand;  all  orders  punctually  attended to  at  No.  152K  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111,
JOSFT'H  E.  WARE,  fashionable  boot  and  shoe  manufactory,  Clark  Street, opposite  City  Saloon.  Having  been  liberally  patroni/.ed  by  the  citizens  of Chicago  and  vicinity,  still  continues  to  make  work  that  is  deserving  of comparison  with  anything  in  the  line  that  is  made  in  Chicago;  the  utmost attention  will  be  paid  to  all  orders  and  the  best  of  stock  used;  a  good  fit may  be  depended  on;  easy  shoes  and  opera  bocAs  made  of  the  best  quality of  buckskin;  persons  having  tenderer  difficult  feet  to  fit  will  hnd  it  to their  advantage  to  give  him  their  custom.  N.  B. — Repairing  done  in the  neatest  manner.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.  I9
CABINET  MAKERS.
D.  A.  &  E.  M.  JONES,  cabinet  and  chair  manufacturers,  Dearborn  Street,
three  doors  north  of  Tremont  Buildings,  Chicago,  111. MANAHAX.  &  JACOBUS,  manufacturers  of  cabinet  furniture,  chairs,  sofas,
bedsteads,  etc.;  furniture  made  to  order  in  the  neatest  style;   10  Clark
Street,  Chicago,  111. C.   MORGAN,  manufacturer  of  all  kinds  of  cabinet  ware  and  chairs,  cheap
for  cash,  199  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111. JOHN  B.  WEIR,   manufacturer  and  dealer  in  furniture  of  all   kinds,    iSS
Lake  Street,  Chica'^o.
DRUGS  AND  MEDICINES.
L.  M.  BOVCE,  wholesale  and  retail  druggist,  119  Lake  Street,  Chicago.
CLARKE;  &  CO.,  102  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  drugs  and  medicines,  manu- facturers of  lard-oil  and  candles.
S.  SAWYER,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  drugs,  paints,  oils,  dyestuffs,. glass,  medicines,  chemicals,  perfumery,  and  groceries,  124  Lake  Street,, two  doors  from  Clark  Street,  Chicago,  111.
DRY  GOODS,  GROCERIES,  ETC.
BALLENTINE  &  SHERMAN,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  staple  and fancy  dry  goods,  groceries,  etc.,  122  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.;  cash paid  for  wheat  and  other  country  produce.
JAMES  E.  BISHOP,  general  dealer  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  hardware,  etc., 131  Lake  Street,  Chicago.  N.  B. — All  kinds  of  country  produce  taken in  exchange  for  goods;  cash  paid  for  wheat  and  pork.
A.  G.  BURLEY  &  CO.,  importers  and  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  china,, glass,  earthen,  stone-ware,  and  looking-glasses,  105  Lake  Street.
BRACKEN  &■  TULLER,  161  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.,  wholesale  and retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  hardware,  leather,  boots,  shoes, powder,  etc.
COMSTOCK  ik  ACKLEY,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  gro- ceries, and  provisions,  82  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.
DYER  &  CHAPIN,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  staple  and  fancy  dry- goods,  groceries,  nails,  glass,  etc.,  etc.;  cash  paid  for  wheat;  103  Lake Street,  Chicago.     Thomas  Dyer,  John  P.  Chapin.
JOHN  FENNERTY,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  dry  goods,  groceries, ready-m.ade  clothing,  etc.,  100  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.;  cheap  for cash;  also  on  hand,  nails,  glass,  indigo,  rnadder,  alum,  cotton  yarn,  etc.
JOHN  L.  GRAY,  dealer  in  dry  goods  and  groceries,  n.-e.  cor.  of  Clark  and North- Water  streets,  at  the  bridge,  Chicago,  111.
JAMES  HERYEY,  dealer  in  dry  goods,_ groceries,  produce,  etc.,  South- Water  Street,  Chicago,  111.
C.  N.  HOLDEN  &.  CO.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  grocer- ies, nails,  glass,  hoof.';,  shoes,  hats,  caps,  shovels,  spades,  forks,  ropes, paih,  and  cords;  choice  tea  and  cotfee  always  on  hand;  corner  Clark  and South- Water  streets,  near  the  bridi/e.
.Jl
20    .  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  ■' i
J.  B.  IRVIN  &  CO.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries, hardware,  crockery,  boots,  shoes,  etc..  Dearborn  Street,  2d  door  from Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.  N.  B. — Cash  and  the  highest  price  paid  for all  kinds  of  country  produce.
B.  JOXES  6c  CO.,  general  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  lumber,  and  pro- duce, South-Water  Street,  between  Clark  and  Dearborn  streets,  Chicago; cash  paid  for  wheat.
LOYD,  BLAKESLEY  &  CO.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  groceries, nails,  glass,  shoes,  leather,  etc.;  cash  paid  for  wheat;  loi  Lake  .Street, Chicago,  III.     Alex.  Loyd,  H.  A.  Blakesley,  Henry  Norton.
II.  NORTON  &  CO.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  groceries,  liquors, paints,  oils,  nails,  glass,  crockery,  staple  dry  goods,  South- Water  Street, Chicago,  111.      Horace  Norton,  Joel  C.  Walter.
THERON  NORTON,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  staple  and  fancy  dry goods,  wet  and  dry  groceries,  hardware,  crockery,  ready-made  clothing, hats,  caps,  salt,  nails,  glass,  etc.,  117  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.
B.  F.  SHERMAN,  general  dealer  in  staple  and  fancy  dry  goods,  groceries,
boots,  shoes,  and  leather,  126  Lake  Street,  corner  of  Clark.
N.  .SHERMAN,  Jr.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  dry  goods,  groceries, nails,  glass,  sash,  etc.,  etc  ,  158  Lake  Street,  n.-e.  cor.  Lake  and  LaSaile streets,  Chicago,  111.
H,  (S:  E.  SMITPI,  Avholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  merchant  tailors'  goods, clothing,  dry  goods,  groceries,  and  hardware,  146  Lake  Street,  Chicago. N.  B. — Clothing  made  in  the  newest  style  and  at  reduced  prices.
■STEYENS  S:  CARPENTER,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  staple  dry goods,  groceries,  hardware,  boots,  shoes,  crockery,  etc.,  166  Lake  St., Chicago,  111.      Henry  Stevens,  Jas.  H.  Carpenter,
H.  O.  vSTONP2,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  hardware, etc.,  114  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.;  storage  and  forwarding,  South- Water  Street;  cash  paid  for  wheat,  flour,  corn,  oats,  etc.
N.  (Sc  Y.  TUTTLE,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  nails, glass,  boots,  leather,  etc.,  68  Lake  St.,  Chicago,  111.,  a  few  doors  east  of i'remont  House;  cash  paid  for  wheat.     Nelson  Tuttle,  Frederick  Tuttlc.
C.  WALKER  &  CO.,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  leather,  boots,  shoes,
and  findings,  dry  goods,  groceries,  hardware,  nails,  oils,  paints,  glass,  etc., South-Water  Street,  Chicago;  cash  paid  for  wheat  and  hides.
S.  B.  WALKER,  148  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.,  general  dealer  in  dry  goods, groceries,  glass,  crockery,  hardware,  cutlery,  boots,  shoes,  etc.
PI.  S.  &  J.  WAL>SWORTH,  dealers  in  dry  goods  and  groceries  at  wholesale and  retail,  113  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.
C.  G.  WICKER  &  CO.,  cheap  cash  store,  94  Lake  Street,  wholesale  and retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries,  leather,  glass,  nails,  j^roduce,  etc.
M.  &  M.  A.  WURT.S,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods,  groceries, boots,  shoes,  leather,  etc.,  99  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.
FORWARDING  AND  COMMISSION.
BRISTOL  &   rORTER,  storage,   forwarding,   and   commission  merchants, Chicago,  111.      Robert  C.  Bristol,  Hibbard  Porter.
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   l843-  '21
HORACE  BUTLEK,  general  agent  ia  the  forwarding  and  commission  busi- ness, also  for  the  purchase  of  wheat  and  other  produce;  dealer  in  staple dry  goods,  groceries,  and  hardware,  also  tlour,  salt,  pork,  gla»s,  fish, shingles,  plaster,  etc.,  etc.;  all  orders  for  purchasing  of  produce  or  for- warding of  goods  and  property  attended  to  with  promptness;  Chicago.
JOHN  P.  CHAPIX  &  CO.,  forwarding  and  commission  merchants,  Chicago; references:  Geo.  Smith  &  Co.,  E.  S.  &  J.  Wadsworth,  Chicago;  Sleight &  Gould,  Michigan  City,  Ind. ;  James  Murray  &  Co.,  Kinnie  &  Davies, Buffalo;  Strachan  l\:  Scott,  Wilson,  Butler  «5c  Baldwin,  Geo.  H.  llutchins, Varnam,  Graham  &  Bebb,  New  York.
C  L,  HARMON,  commission  merchant  and  wholesale  grocer,  corner  Soutli- ^Vater  and  Clark  streets,  Chicago.  111.
G.  S.  HUBBARD,  forwarding  merchant  and  dealer  in  produce  and  provi- sions, South- Water  Street,  between  Clark  and  LaSalle  streets,  Chicago.
HUMPHREYS  &  YVINSLOW,  forwarding  commission  merchants  and  pro- duce dealers,  Chicago,  111.
ORRINGTON  LUNT,  forwarding  and  commission  merchant,  Chicago,  111. ; produce  of  all  kinds  purchased  and  sold  on  commission;  references: Bigelow  &  Gibson,  Joseph  Balistere  &  Co.,  Boston;  E.  T.  H.  Gibson  & Co.,  Allen  &  Pa.xson,  New  York;  Geo.  W.  Tift  &  Co.,  Buffalo.
J.  D.  MERRITT,  forwarder,  commission  merchant,  and  dealer  in  produce and  staple  goods,  Chicago,  111.
HORACE  NORTON  &  CO.,  storage,  forwarding,  and  commission  mer- chants, dealers  in  produce,  iron,  coal,  etc.,  Chicago,  111.;  liberal  advances made  on  produce.  Horace  Norton,  Joel  C.  Walter,  Edward  Kendall Rogers.
NEWBERRY  &  DOLE,  storage,  forwarding,  and  commission  merchants, foot  of  Clark  Street,  at  the  bridge,  Chicago,  111. ;  agents  for  the  following lines:  Merchants'  Transportation  Company,  R.  Hunter  &  Co.,  Hunter, Palmer  &  Co.,  proprietors;  F.  Wilkie,  New  York,  Otis  Clapp,  Boston, R.  Hunter  &  Co.,  Albany,  Hunter,  Palmer  &  Co.,  Buffalo,  O.  Newberry, Detroit,  agents.  Troy  and  Ohio  and  Detroit  lines,  J.  H,  Hooker,  David Camp,  proprietors;  A.  Rindge,  New  York,  J.  H.  Wilgus,  New  York, Camp  &  Hooker,  Buffalo,  Dorr,  Webb  &  Co.,  Detroit,  Gray  (lie  Lewis, Detroit,  agents.      Liberal  advances  made  on  produce.
THERON  PARDE?^,  commission  merchant  and  forwarder,  North-Water Street,  Chicago,  111.,  is  agent  for  the  New  York,  Oswego,  and  Chicago line  of  steam  propellers,  which  connects  with  the  Troy  and  Oswego  line (passage  and  freight  boats).  Bronson  &  Crocker,  Oswego,  H.  C.  Rossiter, Troy,  prof)rietors;  J.  S.  Wychoff,  33  Ca-nties  Slip,  N.  Y.,  J.  K.  Hall, Boston,  agents.  Saw  York,  Utica,  and  Oswego  line  (lake  boats  exclu- sively), Bronson  &:  Crocker,  Oswego,  N.Y.,  H.  C.  Rossiter,  Troy,  N.Y., Farewell  6c  Harrington,  Utica,  N.  Y.,  proprietors;  W.  S.  Rossiter,  23 Ca-nties  Slip,  N.Y.,  J.  R.  Hall,  Boston,  agents.
WHrriNG,  MAGILL  c'v  CO.,  produce  dealers,  North-Water  St.,  Chicago, lib;  storage,  forwarding,  and  commission.
GROCERS.
CHARLES  CLEAVER,  dealer  in  groceries,  177  Lake  Street;  lard-oil,  soap and  candle  factory.  Canal  St.,  between  Madison  and  Monroe,  Chicago.
2
ir
22  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.  ::  ;
HAMILTON  &  WHITE,  dealers  in  groceries,  provisions,  and  produce,  lard- oil,  stearine  candles,  dried  fruit,  sash,  nails,  glass,  powder,  shot,  lead, wooden-ware,  clothing,  etc.,  etc.,  139  Lake  Street,  (first  door  west  of Lake-Street  House),  Chicago,  111.
C.  McDOXXELL,  grocery  store  and  boarding-house  attached,  and  stabling in  the  rear,  corner  of  ^larket  and  Randolph  streets,  between  the  South- Branch  bridge  and  the  Sauganash  Hotel,  Chicago,  111.
H.  NEWHALL,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  fruit,  123  Lake  St.,  Chicago.
WARD  .RATHBONE,  -wholesale  and  retail  dealer  in  fruit,  groceries,  dry goods,  choice  liquors,  141  Lake  Street,  Chicago.
PHILO  C.  SHELDON,  254,  corner  of  Lake  and  Water  streets,  opposite  the Sauganash;  groceries,  provisions,  and  liquors;  Chicago,  111.
HAIR-DRESSERS.
OLIVER  C.  HENSON,  barber  and  fashionable  hair-dresser,  1S3  Lake  St., Chicago,  111.;  perfumery  for  sale.
A.  J.  MILLER,  barber  and  fashionable  hair-dresser.  Market  Street,  near  the Sauganash,  Chicago,  III. ;  P'rench  pomatum,  an  article  superior  to  every other  kind  of  hair-oil,  for  beautifying  and  preserving  the  hair;  cigars  of the  best  quality  constantly  on  hand.
HARDWARE,  ETC.
BOTSEORD  &  BEERS,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  stoves,  Junietta, Swedes,  and  English  iron,  tin  plate,  sheet  iron  and  copper,  hollow  and hard  ware,  cutlery,  nails,  spikes,  sash,  glass,  blacksmiths',  carpenters', joiners',  and  coopers'  tools;  109  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.  Jabez  Kent Botsford,  Cyrenius  Beers.
L.  W.  CLARK,  128  Lake,  corner  of  Clark  Street,  Chicago,  wholesale  and retail  dealer  in  hardware,  saddlery,  and  cutlery,  iron,  steel,  nails,  spikes, and  glass,  stoves,  tin,  sheet  iron,  and  copper  ware.
J.  B.  DOGGETT,  agent  for  the  Brownsville  Juniata  iron  works,  warehouse corner  of  Lake  and  State  streets,  Chicago,  111.
GURNEE  &  MATTESON,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  hardware,  sad- dlery, and  cutlery,  iron,  steel,  nails,  spikes,  glass,  stoves,  tin,  sheet-iron, and  copper  ware,  leather,  shoe  findings,  etc.;  116  Lake  Street,  Chicago, 111.;  cash  and  the  highest  market  price  paid  for  hides.
DAVID  HATCH,  dealer  in  hardware,  98  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.  (store ■with  Sylvester  Marsh).
RYERSON  Sc  BLAIKIE,  90  Lake-  Street,  opposite  the  Tremont  House, Pittsburg  iron-store  (Hecia  works),  flat  bar,  tire,  round,  square,  hoop, band,  saddle  tree,  horseshoe,  boiler,  sheet-iron,  etc.,  plough,  spring,  blis- ter, English  and  German  steel.  l>uggy  springs,  axles,  wagon  and  dearborn boxes,  also  nails,  brads,  cut  and  wrought  spikes,  white  lead,  glass,  etc.; Chicago,  111.,  1844.     Joseph  Turner  Ryerson,  Andrew  Blaikie.
i;-  Ufif'nr,  x  .-  ^^^^^  }^  »;o
CHICAGO   DIRFXTORY,   I  843.  23
H.  M.  STOW,  the  Chicago  Steam  Iron- works;  the  subscriber  would  most respectfully  inform  the  public  ihat  he  is  carrying  on  the  iron  and  brass casting  business  at  his  new  establishment,  on  the  corner  of  Randolph  and Canal  streets,  opposite  the  Western  Hotel,  where  he  can  make  work  in. the  above  line,  both  great  and  small,  and  of  the  best  workmanship  and cheaper  than  the  cheapest.  N.  !>. — Orders  taken  at  the  furnace  store  oa^ Clark  Street,  beiweeu  Lake  and  Water  streets,  and  promptly  attended  to,
HATS,  CAPS,  ETC.
CHARLES  BUHL,  manufacturer  of  hats  and  caps,  and  dealer  in  furs,  buf- falo robes,  hatters'  stock,  trimmings,  etc.;  129  Lake  Street,  Chicago.
A.  GETZLER,  cap  and  umbrella  manufacturer,  and  general  dealer  in  hats, caps,  and  furs,  151  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.
HOTELS,  ETC.
JOHN  ANDERSON,  Washington  Hall,  temperance  house,  North-Water Street,  near  the  Clark-Sc.  bridge;  this  well-known  hotel  has  recently undergone  extensive  additions  and  improvements,  and  is  now  capable  of accommodating  a  large  number  of  boarders  and  travelers;  its  location,  at the  Clark-St.  bridge,  gives  to  this  house  advantages  equal  to  any  other; country  people  will  hnd  this  the  most  comfortable  and  the  cheapest house  in  the  city.
J.  RL^'SSELL,  City  Hotel,  Chicago,  111. ;  this  establishment  is  located  on  the corner  of  Clark  and  Randolph  streets,  in  the  centre  of  the  most  business part  of  the  city,  convenient  to  all  the  principal  steamboat  warehouses and  within  a  few  rods  of  the  northern,  southern,  eastern,  and  western stage  offices,  the  post-office  and  reading  room;  the  sitting  and  lodging rooms  are  large  and  airy,  furnished  with  bells,  and  well  arranged  for  the accommodation  of  families  and  single  gentlemen;  the  prices  of  board  are such  as  can  not  fail  to  be  satisfactory;  a  convenient  hair-dressing  room adjoining;  warm,  cold,  and  shower  baths  always  in  readiness.
JOHN  BATES,  Jr.,  Illinois  Exchange,  corner  Lake  and  Wells  sts.,  Chicago.
P.  A.  BARKER,  Farmers'  Exchange,  corner  of  Lake  St.  and  Wabash  Ave. ; the  Farmers'  Exchange  has  been  removed  to  the  corner  of  Lake  Street and  Wabash  Ave.,  opposite  the  American  Temperance  House,  where  the proprietor  hopes  to  liave  the  pleasure  of  seeing  his  old  friends  and  cus- tou'iers;  excellent  accommodations  for  the  traveling  public;  good  stabling; dry  yards,  etc. ;  boarders  accommodated  at  prices  to  suit  the  times.
C.  W.  COOK,  American  Temperance  House,  corner  of  Lake  Street  and Wabash  Ave.,  near  the  steamboat  landing,  Chicago,  111.  N.  B. — Pas- sengers and  baggage  carried  to  and  from  the  steamboats  free  of  charge.
DENNIS  S.  CADV,  Lake-Street  House  (late  Farmers'  Exchange),  135-7 Lake  Street;  this  establishment,  having  undergone  extensive  repairs  and additions,  is  now  opened  for  the~reception  of  the  public;  being  located in  the  centre  of  business,  the  Lake-Street  House  affords  peculiar  facilities for  the  accommodation  of  boarders  and  travelers  especially,  and  of  per- sons from  the  country  having  business  to  transact  in  the  city;  excellent stabling,  sheds,  and  yard,  etc.,  ia  the  rear  of  the  house,  for  the  accom- modation of  teams,  etc.
\
24  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.
JOHX  MURPHY,  United  States  Hotel;  the  subscriber  would  respectfully announce  to  his  old  friends  and  the  public  generally,  that  he  has  returned to  his  old  and  popular  stand,  where  he  hopes,  by  unremitted  attention  to the  comfort  and  vrelfare  of  his  guests,  to  receive  that  share  of  their patronage  that  his  exertions  may  merit.  The  house  has  been  thoroughly renovated,  cleansed,  and  painted,  with  a  good  yard  and  barn  attached, the  rooms  are  airy,  pleasant,  and  ay;reeable;  his  bar  will  be  supplied  with the  choicest  wines  and  liquors,  his  table  with  all  the  substantial  and delicacies  of  tlie  season,  his  servants  attentive  and  obedient,  and  he pledges  himself  that  nothing  shall  be  wanting  to  render  their  stay  pleasant and  comfortable.     Chicago,  Jan.  i,  1S44.
L.  M.  OSTERHOUDT,  Sauganash  Hotel,  corner  of  Lake  and  Market  sts., Chicago,  III. ;  farmers  will  find  the  best  accommodation  for  their  teams,
D.  L.  ROBERTvS,  Chicago  Temperance  House,  LaSalle  Street,  nearly  oppo- site the  [State]  bank  building,  Chicago,  111.
SKIXXER  &  SMITH,  Mansion  House,  84  and  86  Lake  Street,  Chicago, 111. ;  baggage  taken  to  and  from  steamboats  free  of  charge.
THOMAS  &  WHEELOCK,  the  \Yashington  Coffee- House,  Lake  Street, third  door  east  of  the  Tremont  Elouse;  this  entirely  new  and  splendid house  has  been  titted  up  by  the  proprietors  in  the  most  modern  and approved  style;  tlie  bill  of  fare  will  embrace  every  variety  to  be  procured in  this  and  eastern  markets;  hot  meals  can  be  had  at  all  hours;  fresh  oys- ters kept  constantly  on  hand.  The  proprietors  pledge  themselves  that nothing  shall  be  wanting  on  their  part  to  give  their  customers  entire satisfaction.
INSURANCE  COMPANIES.
A.  GARRETT,  agent,  Marine  and  Inland  Insurance,  agency  of  the  Atlantic Mutual  Insurance  Company  of  the  city  of  New  York  in  the  City  of  Chi- cago; cash  capital,  $100,000;  with  notes  subscribed  on  the  Mutual  pkan for  $350,000;  total,  $450,000.  I'ersons  wishing  to  participate  in  the profits  of  this  company,  are  informed  that  the  company  is  now  prepared to  make  insurance  on  marine  and  inland  risks,  on  terms  favorable  to  the applicants,  who  are  assured  that  the  company  will  be  disposed  to  settle claims  with  such  promptness  and  liberality  as  to  warrant  a  large  share of  the  public  patronage;  the  board  of  trustees  have  endeavored  to  furnish the  insured  the  means  both  of  safety  and  profit,  and  they  trust  that  when the  plan  for  accomplishing  this  is  investigated  it  will  be  found  satisfactory. Under  the  charter  of  the  company  the  excess  of  certificates  of  earnings over  $500,000  can  l^e  paid  off  successively,  which  is  a  result  that  uill  be looked  for  in  a  reasonable  time.  Trustees:  Walter  R.  Jones,  Josiah  L. Hale,  George  Gri.^wold,  Jonathan  Goodhue,  Elisha  Riggs,  Elenry  Parish, Thomas  Tileston,  Henry  Coit,  Charles  H;  Russell,  E.  D.  Hurlbut,  Jos. \Y.  Alsop,  jr.,  John  C.  Circen,  William.  S.  Wetmore,  Augustin  Avcril, Samuel  T.  Jone>,  Lowell  Holbrook,  P.  A.  Hargous,  Edward  H.  Gillilan, Meyer  Gana,  Wm.  C.  Pickersgill,  Geo.  T,  Elliot,  James  McCall,  Ram- say Crooks,  Edwin  Bartlett,  Caleb  Barstow,  A.  P.  Pillot,  A.  LeMoync, Leonardo  .S.  Snare/,,  Christopher  R.  Robert,  Richard  T.  Haines,  Leory M.  Wiley,  Edmund  La^fan,  Daniel  S.  Miller,  S.  T.  Nicoll,  W  illiam  F. Havemeyer,  Josiah  Lane,  Joshua  J.  Henry,  William  Sturgis,  jr.,  Rcuel Smith,  A.  A.  Low;  Yv^alter  R.  Jones,  president;  Joshua  L.  Hale,  vice- president.      December,   1843.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,   1 843.  25
A.  GARRETT,  agent,  Fire  and  Marine  Insurance,  agency  of  the  National Insurance  Company  of  the  City  of  Xew  York  in  the  City  of  Chicago. The  above-named  company  have  established  an  agency  in  the  City  of Chicago  where  they  are  prepared  to  insure  against  loss  or  damage  by  tire, and  also  against  loss  or  damage  on  goods  and  merchandize  in  the  course of  transportation  on  the  lakes,  canal,  or  railroad.  Directors :  William G.  Ward,  John  Bower,  Stephen  Uolt,  Philip  W.  Engs,  Wm.  S.  Slocum, Wm.  W.  Campbell,  John  F.  Mackie,  Marcus  Spring,  Jacob  Miller,  John Nev.'house,  Samuel  S.  Doughty,  John  F.  Butterworth;  John  Brouvver, president;  James  W.  Savage,  Secretary.     December,  1S43.
GARRETT  &  SEAMAN,  general  agency  and  commission  store,  in  the  four- story  brick  building  on  South- Water  Street,  2d  door  from  Clark  Street. The  undersigned  give  notice  that  they  have  formed  a  partnership,  to commence  on  the  ist  of  May,  1S44,  under  the  name  and  style  of  (,iarrett &  Seaman,  for  the  transaction  of  a  general  agency  and  commission  busi- ness, both  in  Chicago  and  New  York.  They  will  attend  to  the  purchase and  sale  of  merchandise  and  the  sale  of  wheat,  and  all  kinds  of  produce in  the  city  of  New  York;  Mr.  Seaman  is  a  resident  of  the  city  of  New York,  and  well  acquainted  with  the  business  of  purchasing  and  selling merchandise  and  produce,  and  will  at  all  times  give  his  personal  attention to  any  and  all  kinds  of  business  entru>ted  to  his  care;  the  house  in  Chi- cago will  be  ready  to  supply  country  merchants  with  all  kinds  of  mer- chandise at  New- York  prices,  adding  transportation  only.  N.  B. — Con- stantly on  hand,  marble  mantels,  tombs,  monuments,  head-stonts,  table tops,  etc. ;  they  will  on  application  furnish  articles  in  the  above  line  at short  notice.      December,  1S43.
G.  S.  IIU15BARD,  agent,  .Etna  Insurance  Company  of  Hartford,  Conn.; th's  well-known  company  is  now  prepared  to  take  risks  against  fire  in  the City  of  Chicago  and  its  vicinity  at  low  premiums.
GEORGE  SMITH  &  CO.,  bankers  and  insurance  brokers,  (bank  building), LaSalle  .Street,  Chicago,  III.
E.  S.  &  J.  WADSWORTH,  agents,  Hartford  Fire-Insurance  Company,  1 13 Lake  Street,  Chicago.
JEWELLERS,  ETC.
V.  FAELER,  clock  and  watch  maker,  Dearborn  Street,  near  the  Tremont House,  Chicago,  111.
S.  J.  SHERWOOD,  144  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.,  general  dealer  in  gold and  silver  watches,  clocks,  jewelry,  gold  safety-chains,  gold  fob-chains, gold  spectacles,  thimbles,  pencil  cases,  breast  pins,  finger  rings,  silver spoons,  muhic  boxes,  card  cases,  pocket  brushes,  needles;  watches  and clocks  repaired  and  warranted;  ca>h  paid  for  old  silver.
LAND  AGENTS.
HENRY  W.  CLARKE,  general  land-agent,  office  on  Clark  Street,  opposite City  Saloon,  Chicago,  111.  "^'ill  promptly  attend  to  the  payment  of  taxes in  Illinois  and  Wisconsin;  redemption  of  land  sold  for  taxes,  etc.,  etc.
OGDF^N  &  JONES,  northwestern  land-agency,  general  land-agents  for  the northwestern  states  and  territories,  office  on  Kinzie  Street,  east  of  North Dearborn,  Chicago,  ill.      William  B.  Ogden,  William  E.  Jones.
I
26  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1843.
J.  B.  F.  RUSSELL  has  established  an  office  for  the  transaction  of  general land-agency  at  Chicago,  for  the  payment  of  taxes,  purchase,  or  sale  of lands.  lots,  etc.,  etc.
LOOKING-GLASSES.
D.  tS:  A.  L.  JACOBLi'S,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  looking-glasses,  clocks, Britannia  ware,  cutlery,  etc. ;  10  Clark  Street,  Chicago,  111. ;  pictures and  picture-frames  of  all  sizes  constantly  on  hand.
R.  LYOXS,  S3  Lake  Street,  opposite  the  Mansion  House,  Chicago;  whole- sale and  retail  dealer  in  gilt  and  mahogany  framed  looking-glasses,  and looking-glass  plates,  clocks,  and  engravings;  also  manufacturer  of  portrait and  picture  frames  of  every  description.  N.  B, — Gilding  of  every  des- cription neatly  executed  at  the  sliortest  notice.
LUMBER  MERCHANTS.
TARLETOX  JOXES,  dealer  in  Green-Bay  lumber,  foot  of  Clark  Street,  at the  bridge,  Chicago,  111.
/.  M.  UXDER\VOOD,  lumber  dealer,  cor.  of  Lake  and  West-\Vater  streets, a  few  rods  north  of  the  U.  S.  Hotel;  a  full  assortment  of  lumber,  shingles, doors,  sash,  etc.,  constantly  on  hand.
MARKETS.
CLYBOURX  c^:  IIOYEY,  butchers,  Clark  Street,  State  Street,  and  Western Markets,  Chicago,  111.
A.  FUXK,  butcher,  Fulton  and  Ijoston  Markets,  on  Dearborn  and  Randolph streets.
ERI  REYXOLDS,  butcher  and  packer,  Chicago,  111.,  ]>acking-house  on  the South-Ilranch,  oflice  at  his  residence  on  I)earborn  St.  X".B. — Butchci- ing  and  packing  will  be  done  at  the  shortest  notice,  and  on  as  reasonable terms  as  at  any  other  establishment.
PAINTERS,  ETC.
JOHX  I.  DOW  &  CO.,  ornamental,  sign,  house,  and  ship  painters  and glaziers,  Clark  .Street,  three  doors  south  of  Lake,  Chicago,  111.
ALEXAXDER  WHITE,  painter,  and  dealer  in  paints,  oils,  varnishes,  glass, brushes,  sa^h,  etc.,  artists'  bruslies  and  colors  of  every  description;  i(^S Lake  Street,  Chicago;  house,  sign,  ship,  coach,  and  ornamental  painting done  with  neatness  and  despatch.
PECK  &  BOYCE,  manufacturers  of  linseed  oil,  will  at  ail  times  exchange oil  or  pay  cash  for  flax  seed  at  thek-oil-mill  on  Madison  Street,  Chicago. Sheldon  W.  Peck,  Leroy  ^L  Boyce.
PHYSICIANS.
R.  E.  W.  ADAMS,  homaopathic  physician,  office  corner  of  Clark  and  Lake streets;  residence,  Clark  Street,  opposite  the  public  square.
.'^.Lr.;:;!   n;  .   >:'     'tko'
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,  1 843.  2/
DOCTOR  BLANEY,  professor  of  chemistry  and  materia  medica  in  Rush Medical  College,  may  be  consulted  professionally  at  his  office,  on  Clark Street  near  South-Water  Street;  Dr.  B.  will  also  attend  to  chemical analysis  in  all  its  branches.
V.  A.  BOYER,  physician  and  surgeon,  justice-of-the-peace;  office,  Clark  St., nearly  opposite  the  City  Hotel.
DANIEL  ERAIXARD,  M.D.,  professor  of  anatomy  and  surgery  in.  Rush Medical  College;  office  on  Clark  Street,  opposite  the  post-office.
DOCTOR  H.  H.  BRAYTOX  having  established  his  residence  permanently at  Chicago,  respectfully  tenders  his  professional  services  to  the  inhabitants of  the  city;  twenty-five  years  study  and  practice,  and  constant  applica- tion to  professional  duties,  he  hopes  will  entitle  him  to  the  confidence  of those  who  may  demand  his  services.  Fresh  vaccine  virus  now  and  always on  hand;  office  and  residence,  on  the  east  side  of  Clark  Street,  first  door south  of  the  Methodist  church.
DOCTOR  J.  BRINKERHOFF,  office,  Clark  Street,  oppo.site  public  square; drug-store,  143  Lake  Street.
DOCTOR  EG  AX  can  be  consulted  in  private  cases  at  his  residence  or  office, but  can  not  attend  to  out-door  practice.
DOCTOR  JOHX  W.  ELDRIDGE,  office  and  residence  on  Randolph  St., first  door  west  of  City  Hotel.
DOCTOR  BEXJAMIX  F.  HALE,  office,  185  Lake  Street;  residence,  east side  of  Wells  Street,  one  door  south  of  Lake  Street.
M.  L.  KXAPP,  M.D.,  professor  of  obstetrics,  etc.,  in  Rush  I^ledical  College, Chicago;  may  be  consulted  professionally  at  the  Mansion  House,  82  Lake Street.
DOCTOR  D.  S,  SMITH,  office  on  Clark  Street,  two  doors  south  of  Lake, over  J.  B.  F.  Russell's  land-agency  office;  residence,  LaSalle  Street, opposite  tlie  First  Baptibt  Church.
SADDLERY  AND  HARNESS.
SILAS  B.  COBB,  general  dealer  in  saddles,  harnesses,  trunks,  valises,  collars, whips,  carpet  bags,  etc.,  etc.;  171  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.
D.  HORTOX,  saddle  and  harness  manufacturer,  and  city  carriage  trimmer; saddles,  harness,  trunks,  valises,  carpet  bags,  bridles,  whips,  etc.,  con- stantly on  hand;  all  kinds  of  repairing  done  in  the  neatest  manner  and on  the  shortest  notice;  Dearborn  St.,  two  doors  north  of  Tremont  House.
JAMES  S.  PAIX'E,  saddle,  harness,  trunk,  valise,  and  carpet-bag  manu- facturer; Dearborn  Street,  between  Lake  and  South-Water,  Chicago; all  kinds  of  jobbing  in  fits  line  solicited;  repairing  done  on  the  most reasonable  terms  and  at  the  shortest  notice.
C.  11.  PECK,  dealer  in  saddles,  harness,  trunks,  valises,  carpet-bags,  bridles, martingales,  whips,  etc.;  164  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.;  repairing  done at  short  notice.
TAILORS  AND  DRAPERS.
S.  BEXEDIK,  merchant  tailor,  187  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III.;  a  full  assort- ment of  dry  goods,  clothing,  etc.,  constantly  kept  on  hand,  warranted  of the  best  material  and  latest  style.
\r.
,y'.       ;.'      J-.^    t)'Jl
l^'.-.I  .    •r.i-
2S  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,  1843.      .
ANDREW  T.  COX  .^-  CO.,  tailors,  Clark  Street,  between  Lake  and  South- Water  streets.
HETTINGER  &  PETERMAN,  tailors  and  drapers,  South- Water  Street, Chicago,  111. ;  ready-made  clothing  of  every  description  constantly  on hand;  all  orders  punctually  attended  to;  cutting  and  repairing  done  at short  notice,  and  on  reasonable  terms.
J.  H.  HODGSON,  draper  and  tailor,  Clark  Street,  opposite  City  Hotel.
H.  H.  HUSTED,  draper  and  tailor,  97 j-^  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III;  a  large assortment  of  ready-made  clothing  constantly  on  hand,
W.  LOCK  &  CO.,  cheap  clothing  store,  125  Lake  Street,  corner  of  Lake and  Clark  streets,  Chicago,  111.
P.  NEWRL'RGH,  draper  and  tailor,  153  Lake  Street;  orders  promptly attended  to.
CHAS.  TAYLOR,  fashionable  tailor,  Clark  Street,  between  Lake  St.  and post-office,  Chicago,  111.;  would  most  respectfully  solicit  a  continuance of  the  liberal  patronage  hitiierto  extended  to  him,  assuring  his  cUstomer.<> and  the  public  that  he  uses  Francis  H.  Taylor's  "mathematical  principle of  cutting  garments,"  which  is  true  in  theory  and  application,  and  pro- ducer better-fitting  garments  than  can  by  any  possibility  be  cut  by  any other  system.  N.B. — The  French  and  New  York  fashions  will  be  re- ceived monthly.
MISCELLANEOUS.
NORTON  &  TUCKERMAN,  wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  dry  goods, groceries,  hardware,  lumber,  and  salt;  134  Lake  Street;  warehouse  and lumber-yard.  North- Water  Street,  north  end  of  Clark -Street  bridge; storage  and  commission.
DR.  TEW,  phrenological  and  magnetic  examiner,  at  his  residence,  second bouse  north  of  the  E{nscopal  Church;  may  be  consulted  in  all  cases  of nervous  or  mental  difTiculty;  the  application  of  his  remedies  will  enable him  to  relieve  or  cure  any  case  of  monomania,  insanity,  or  recent  mad- ness, where  there  is  no  inflammation  or  destruction  of  the  mental  organs; his  attention  to  the  diseases  of  the  nervous  system,  such  as  the  St.  Vitus' dance,  spinal  affections,  has  resulted  in  some  remarkable  cures.  Having been  engaged  for  the  last  five  years  in  teaching  mental  philosophy,  as taught  by  phrenology,  together  v/ith  his  numerous  phreno-magnetic  ex- periments, enable  him  to  give  correct  and  true  delineations  of  mental dispositions  of  different  persons;  which  will  be  every  way  profitable  to all  who  wish  to  understand  the  mysteries  of  their  own  natures,  and  how they  may  use  their  talents  to  the  best  advantage.
MRS.  ATKINSON,  milliner  and  dressmaker,  ladies'  own  materials  made  up; Clark  Street,  opposite  the  post-office,  Chicago,  111.
D.  A.  P>ARROWS  &  CO.,  manufacturers  of  and  wholesale  and  retail  dealers in  confectionary,  syrups,  cakes,  and  ice  creams;  147  Lake  St.,  Chicago.
J.  B.  RUSCH,  blacksmith,  corner  of  Randolph  and  Market  streets;  alscv general  dealer  in  groceries,  provisions,  liquors,  and  fruit,  Clark  Street, Chicago,  III.
■.J;T        ;)T.
.,.„^i.:..-.      ut-    1
CHICAGO    DIRFXTORY,   1 843.  ,  29
JOHN  BURGESS,  carriage  and  wagon  maker,  Randolph  St.,  Chicago,  III.; orders  in  the  above  line  promptly  executed  on  the  most  reasonable  terms.
GEORGE  F.  FOSTER,  sail-maker  and  general  dealer  in  ship  chandlery, groceries,  paints,  oils,  nails,  etc.,  South-Water  Street,  Chicago,  111.; bags  and  bagging,  ropes,  tar,  pitch,  oakum,  sail-cloth,  etc.,  constantly  on hand,
THOMAS  GEORGE,  new  tin,  copper,  and  sheet -iron  manufactory,  197 Lake  Street,  opposite  the  Illinois  Exchange,
JEFFREY  &  BEXTLY,  shoeing  smiths  and  horse  farriers;  shop  on  West- ^Yater  Street,  between  the  United  States  Hot;l  and  J,  M.  Underwood's lumber  yard.     George  Jeffrey,  John  Bently.
KILER  K,  JONES,  periodical  and  agency  office;  kept  constantly  on  hand, at  the  periodical  depot  on  Clark  Street,  three  doors  north  of  the  post- ofhce,  all  the  new  and  cheap  works  of  the  day,  such  as  periodicals,  maga- zines, newspapers,  etc. ;  also  agent  for  the  New  Mirror,  and  all  the  lead- ing periodicals  in  this  country;  all  orders  promptly  attended  to.
P.  NICKALLS,  livery,  commission,  and  bait  stable,  corner  of  \Yolcott  and Kinzie  streets,  Chicago.  N.  B. — Job  horses  and  M'agons  furnished  on reasonable  terms.
PERKINvS  &.  FENTOX,  carriage  and  wagon  making,  inform  the  public that  they  are  prepared  to  execute  any  orders  in  the  business  above-men- tioned on  the  most  reasonable  terms  and  on  short  notice;  they  are  also- prepared  to  accommodate  the  public  with  blacksmithing,  and  house,  sign, and  carriage  painting.  Their  shops  may  be  found  on  Randolph  Street^ opposite  the  public  square.     Chicago,  Jan.  i,  1844.
PFUND  &  CO.,  Clark- Street  bakery,  between  S. -Water  and  Lake  streets.
L.  P.  SANGER  &  CO.,  123  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111.,  manufacturers  and wholesale  and  retail  dealers  in  hats,  caps,  muffs,  boas,  buffalo  coats,  buffalo robes,  buffalo  overshoes,  buckskin  mitts;  cash  paid  for  all  kinds  of  furs.
CHRISTOPHER  SEERE,  agent  for  Kelly's  improved  pumps,  at  the  ware- house of  Theron  Pardee.
I.  C.  STEVENS,  (sign  of  tlie  three  hats),  hat,  cap,  and  fur  manufacturer,  loS Lake  Street,  Chicago;  hats  and  caps  of  all  qualities  and  of  the  latest fashions  to  suit  customers;  also  every  variety  of  articles  belonging  to  his line  of  busine-s,  such  as  buckskin  mittens,  gloves,  overshoes,  umbrellas, gentlemen's  neck  stocks,  life  preservers,  and  money  and  riding  belts. N.B. — Hatters'  stock  and  trimmings  always  on  hand;  buffalo  robes  for sale,  wholesale  and  retail;  cash  paid  for  furs  and  deer-skins.
J-  W.  XORRIS,  generrd  itjldligence  and  agency  office,  Clark  Street,  opposite the  Saloon  (over  Ku.-seU's  land-office);  where  situations  will  be  procured for  persons  seeking  dii'ferent  kinds  of  employment;  clerks,  book-keepers, overseers,  school  teachers,  mechanics,  awd  laborers,  cooks,  waiters,  porters, nur.ses,  servant  girls,  etc.,  etc.,  promjlly  supplied  with  places.  Also,  in- formation given  of  [)roperty  to  be  rented,  and  tenants  obtained  for  the- same;  agencies  of  all  kinds  promptly  and  faithfully  attended  to.  Cor- rected register  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  city,  in  connection  with  the general  directory,  at  all  times  accessii;le  to  the  public.  New  names  en- rolled and  changes  of  business  or  residence  inserted  without  any  charge.
<>''
Ti     ,7T.  I-"""!'-''!''''
30  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,   1 843.
"NVM.  WHEELER  &  CO.,  dealers  in  stoves,  hardware,  cutlery,  tin,  sheet- iron,  and  copper  ware;  agents  for  the  Hazard  Company's  various  sorts  of powder;  145  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  111. ;  cash  paid  for  furs  and  deer-skins, beeswax,  genshang,  lead,  and  timothy  seed.
11.  O.  STONE,  114  Lake  Street,  Chicago,  III,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer in  dry  goods  and  groceries;  100  pes  fulled  cloth,  ass'd  colors;  50  bales sheeting,  wicks  and  twine;  30  pes  broadcloths,  ass'd  colors;  3  cases  hard times;  20  pes  cassimeres;  10  cases  prints;  looo  lbs  cotton  yarn;  40  pes flannel,  ass'd  colors;  60  pes  Ky.  Jeans;  30  cases  boots  and  shoes;  30 pes  muslin  de lanes  and  chusans;  40  pes  colored  and  lustring  silks;  600 pes  seasonable  ribbons  and  artificial  tlowers;  Tuscan  silk  and  velvet bonnets;  100  kegs  nails,  sash,  glass,  and  putty;  50  bbls  dried  peaches  and apples;  a  full  cargo  of  wooden-ware;  100  chests,  ^-chests,  and  caddies of  tea;  100  bags  coffee;  10  hhds  and  30  bbls  sugar  and  molasses;  a full  assortment  of  family  groceries.  "He  that  would  thrive,  must  either hold  or  drive."  Call  and  see.  No  charge  for  showing  goods  at  114 Lake  Street;  storage  on  South- Water  Street;  cash  advances  made  on produce  left  in  store;  cash  paid  at  all  times  for  wheat  and  flour.
XGAN'S  sarsaparilla  panacea,  sold  at  Francis  Stead's  city  drug  store,  76 Lake  Street.  There  are  in  the  hands  of  Dr.  Egan  private  letters  from our  most  respectable  citizens  containing  accounts  of  some  astonishing cures  from  the  use  of  this  article,  which  can  be  seen  at  his  office.
We  call  the  attention  of  the  public  to  the  advertisement,  which  we commence  this  week,  of  Dr.  Egan's  Sarsaparilla  Panacea.  Being  our^elf a  medical  man,  we  may  be  permitted  to  say  that  we  are  acquainted  v.ith Dr.  Egan,  and  know  him  to  be  a  man  of  science  and  of  high  standing  in his  profession.  We  take  him  to  be  above  quackery,  and  are  confident  he would  not,  if  he  could,  palm  a  useless  nostrum  upon  the  public  for  the sake  of  paltry  gain.  The  Sarsaparilla  has  long  been  celebrated  for  its restorative  and  renovating  effects  in  chronic  disease,  and  there  is  no  doubt that  Dr.  Egan  has  succeeded  in  giving  a  more  effective  and  successful combination  than  it  has  before  received.  We  believe  it  worthy  of  conh- dence,  and  recommend  its  trial  by  the  aftlicted. — 5/.  Charles  Patriot.
ELLIS  &  FERGUS,  general  book  and  job  printers.  Saloon  Buildings,  Clark Street,  Chicago;  every  variety  of  book  and  job  printing  done  in  the  best style  and  on  the  most  moderate  terms;  blanks  printed  to  order  and  kept constantly  on  hand.     William  Ellis,  Robert  Fergus.
JOHN  WENl"WOr<TH,  editor,  publisher,  and  proprietor  Chicago  Democrat, office,  107  Lake  Street,  third  story;  printing,  job,  fancy,  and  book  work of  all  kinds  executed  with  neatnes:>  and  despatch;  blanks  of  all  kind  con- stantly on  hand.
[FIRST  EDITIOX.] If  YOU  can  supply  an  omission,  correct  a
name,  add  a  date  or  a  number,  please    forward    same   for insertion  in  a  later  edition,  to
ROBERT    FERGUS,  Compiler, Blanks  furnished  on  application.         185    Illinois    St.,    Chicago.
DIRECTORY
OF    THE
CITY    OF    CIIICA.GO,
FROM   AUGUST   TO   DECEMBER,
1843.
City  Limits: — Xorth  of  Twenty-second  vStreet;  east  of  Wood;  and  south of  North  Avenue.
Ward  Bijundaries:  ist — South-Side  east  of  Clark  Street  and  north  of Twenty-second  Street;  2d — South- Side  we.st  of  Clark  Street  to  the  River  and north  of  Twenty-second  Street;  3d — South  of  W. -Randolph  Street  to  Twen- ty-second Street,  west  of  the  River  to  Wood  Street;  4th — West  of  the  River to  Xorth- Wood  Street,  north  of  West-Randolph  Street  to  West-North  Ave.; 5th — North-Side,  north  of  the  River  to  North  Avenue,  west  of  North-Clark Street;  6th — Nortii-Side,  north  of  the  River  to  North  Avenue,  east  of  North- Clark  Street.
Remarks. — It  has  been  the  design  to  include  in  this  Directory  the  names of  all  persons  and  all  firms  in  the  City;  to  arrange  them  alphabetically;  and, in  every  instance  to  give  the  correct  spelling.  There  may  be  cases,  however, where  names  may  have  been  accidentially  inserted  in  the  wrong  connection, and  cases  also  of  incorrect  orthography.  Abbreviations,  which  occur  only  in a  very  few  words,  will  readily  be  understood:  bet  stands  for  between;  res for  residence;  bds  for  boards;  Rand  for  Randolph;  Mad  for  Madison;  Wash for  Washington;  etc.  The  word  street  in  most  instances  is  omitted.  The place  of  business  uniformly  precedes  the  residence.
Very  few  of  the  buildings  v/ere  numbered,  except  Lake  Street;  the  num- bers now  given  are  those  of  tlie  present,  (1896).
The  deaths  in  most  cases,  except  as  otherwise  stated,  occurred  in  Chicago.
Abell,  Sidney,  attorney  at  law,  bds  Lake  IIoiisc
[died,  San  Francisco,  CaL Abbott,  Thomas  L.,  clerk  at  Cyrus  Mann's.  47  Clark,  res  same Abbott,  Windsor,  clerk  at  Ward  liatbbone's,  141  Lake,  res  same
31
1
•J  p.  i-    .1
■  tnua  'ju:  :J3
32  CPIICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Ackley,  Benjamin,  sailor.  [died  June  30,  1895,  ;iL;fd  TO.
Ackley,  Benj.  F..  (Comstock  &  A.,)  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dcail.xn-n
-    *  [died,  SauFrancisco,  Cal,,  ]May  i,  1853,  aiif-l  — .
Adams,  Bc-njamin  F.  [died  July  25,  188G,  aged  niU^.
Adams,  Geo.,  laborer,  John  L.  Gray's,  u.-e.  cor  X.  Clark  and  X.  Water Adams,  George,  tailor,  at  Charles  Taylor's,  42  Clark Adams.  Mrs.  Maria,  laundress  [widow  of  George,  butcher],  X.  Clark,
bet  Water  and  Kinzie  [died  3[arch  11,  1884,  aged  <Ji>}x,
Adams,  11.  E.  ^V.,  jjhysician,  s.-w.  cor  Clark  and  Lake,  res  Chirk,  op.
public-square Adams,  Wrn.  Hanford,  (W.  H.  A.  &  Co.)  res  121  LaSalle,  bet  Wash- ington and  3Iadison  [died  June  6,  1882,  aged  CT. Adams  *fc  Co.,  W.  H.  (Edward  Bradley  of  Xew  Canaan,  Conn.),  boot
and  shoe  dealers,  138  Lake Adsit,  James  M,  carj^euter,  shop  and  res  108  Monroe  near  Dearborn
[died  Sepiem])er  4.  1894,  aged  So-G  29. Aiken,  Samuel,  shoemaker,  at  Wm.  Wheeler's.  Clark  near  Lake Albee,  Cyras  P.,  butcher,  at  Fulton  Market,  s.-w.  cor  Lake  &  Dearb.
[died  3[arch  25,  1871,  aavd  58. Alderman,  Henry,  shoemaker,  at  Wm.  David's,  172  Lake,  [moved  to
LockiKMt,  lil.' Allen.  Alfred,  tailor
Allen,  Edward  Kichards,  druggist,  Leroy  M.  Boyce,  [now  at  Aurora. 111. Allen,  Geo.  P.,  shipcarpenter,  bds  Xelson  C.  Walton Allen,  James  F.,  carpenter,  res  Illinois  bet  Pine  and  Sand Allen,  James  Pierce  (J.  P.  A.  &  Co.)  res  9  liiver
[died,  Allen's  Grove,  McIIenry  Co.,  IlL Allen,  Jas.  P.,  &  Co.  [Yiri,dl  P.  AValter],  lumber  merchants,  n.-vv.  cor
Canal  and  Fulton,  3d  AVard Allen,  Thomas,  at  Joliet  [tirst  conductor  of  tlie  Galena  R.  R.,  opened
July  4,  1848 Allen,  Wm.,  shipcarpenter,  res  Wolcott,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie
[died  May  26,  1855,  ag(  d  — . Almenflinger,  George,  laljorer,  res  Cass  bet  Chicaao  ave  and  Pear-ons
[died  August  28,  1852,  aged  50. Almendinger,  John,  laborer,  res  Cass  bet  Chicago  ave  and  Peai>ons
[died  June  9,  1875,  aged  50. Alverson,  Wm.,  mason,  bds  Washington  Hall Ambrose,  liobcrt  L.,  clerk,  at  Horatio  Buell.  121  Lake Ambrose,  Ruel,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  15G  Lake,  res  W^ells  bet
Lake  and  Randol]>h American  Temperance  House,  n.-w.  cor  Lake  and  Wabash  ave.  Cook  <k
Surdam,  props Anderson,  Andrew,  res  X.  Water  near  X.  Franklin  i
Anderson,  Cyrus  K.,  clerk,  bds  Wasliington  Hall  '
Anderson,  George,  wigmaker,  44  Clark    [died  Oct.  30,  1887,  aged  74)'2- Anderson,  Mrs.  Geo.,  millinery  and  straw  goods,  44  Clark,  res  same Anderson,  Isaac,  clerk,  '  [died  August  20,  1872,  aged  47.
Anderson,  John,  prop  Washington  Hall,  s.-e.  cor  X.  Clark  and  X.  Water
U-^'-'
.1^1  I  M.iuA
1 1  ..
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  33
Anderson.  ^V.  H.  blacksmith,  at  Itbream  Taylor's,  141  Randolph
Anderton,  John  F.,  bds  Illinois  Exchange,  192  Lake
Andrews,  Collins,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Branch,  west  side
Andrns,  Loomis,  (A.  &  Doyle,)  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn
Andrus  it  Dovle,  drv  o;oods,  groceries,  and  jirovisions,  121  S.  Water
Apfel,  Henry;
Apfel.  Philip,  cutlery
Apley.  C.  F.,  mason,  at  Alson  S.  Sherman's
Arbuckle,  Abner,  waiter,  at  Tremont  House
Arentz,  Samuel,  tinsmith.  Botsford  &  Beers,  res  Franklin,  nr  Lake
Armstrong,  3[rs.  Elizal)etli,  milliner  and  maniua  maker,  153  Lake
Armstronir?  Thomas,  laborer,  Kinzie,  east  of  AVolcott
[died,  Starke,  Fla.,  July  9,  1892,  aged  81-5. Arnold.  Isaac  ]S^ewton,  (X.  <fc  Ogden,)  res  Ontario  n.-w.  cor  N.  Dearb.
[died  April  24,  1884,  aged  TO. Arnold  S:  Ogden,  attorneys  and  counsellors  at  law,  120  Lake Arnold,  J.,  carpenter,  res  Fort  Dearborn
Arnold.  John  M.,  carpenter,  res  Madison        [died  before  May  5,  1855. Artes,  Isaac,  laborer,  2d  Ward,  north  of  Jackson Ashton,  Samuel,  law-student,  38  Clark,  bds  Dennis  S.  Cady Ashton,  William,  clerk,  at  ]N[anahan  &  Jacobus",  10  Clark Atherton,  Richard,  tailor,  at  Edward  Burton's,  res  0th  Ward Athy,  Stephen,  laborer,  Washington  bet  Wells  and  Franklin Atkinson,  Henry,  painter,  [died  February  1,  1871,  aged  02.
Atkinson,  ]Mrs.  Joseph,  milliner  and  dressmaker,  53  Clark,  res  same Atkinson,  Jose])h,  hatter,  at  I.  C.  Stephens'.  108  Lake,  res  53  Clark Atz"l.  George,  bds  Tobias  Atzel  rharness-maker,  died  April  10,  1891,
aged  02-10  26. Atzel,  Tobias,  carpeiiter.  res  Jefferson,  l)et  AV.  Washington  and  ]\ladl-
son.  west  side  street  [died.  Downer's  Grove,  111.,  Nov.  25. 1803,  a.  80. Austin,  Chamberlin.  farmer  [carpenter],  res  Illinois  bet  N.  Clark  and
N.  La  Salle Averell.  Albert  J.,  sailor,  bds  James  Averell's,  X.  Water  east  of  Rush Averell.  Andrew,  s]ii[)carj)enter,  bds  James  Averell's Averell.  James,  shipcarpenter,  res  N.  Water  bet  Rush  and  Sand
[died  June  10,  1803,  aged  71. Ayres,  Silas,  machinist,  bds  George  Chackstield's,  18  Clark
If  YOU  can  supply  an  omission,  correct  a
name,  add  a   date   or  a  number"^   please    forward   same   for insertion  in  a  later  edition,  to
ROBERT    FERGUS,  Compiler, Blanks  furnished  on  application.         185   Illinois    St.,    Chicago.
n
34  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Bacr,  Adam,  slioemaker.  John  B.  Mitchell    [died  Dec.  27,  187T,  a.  — . Baer,  Lorenz,  shoemaker,  cor  ^Michigan  and  Wolcott
[died  January  11.  1893,  aged  — . Bailey.  Bennet,  car2)eDter.  Dearborn,  bds  John  Gray
[died  Xovember  7,  i8<Sl,  aged  70-11-T. Bailey,  Harlow,  laborer,  re^  ^V.  Randolph,  8d  ward Bailey,  Henry,  drayman  and  house-mover,  Wabash  are,  near  S.  Water
[died  December  15,  1886,  aged  73i^. Bailey,  Justice,  shipcarpenter,  X.  AVater,  bet  Rush  and  Pine Baillett,  Richard,  soap  and  candle  maker,  Charles  Cleaver Baker,  Franklin,  clerk,  Alanson  Follansbee,  bds  Tremont  House
[died  October  24,  1882,  aged  G6. Baker,  James,  clerk
Baldwin,  J.,  painter,  Dimmock  &  Stow,  bds  Western  Hotel Baldwin,  Wm.  Anson,  contractor,  bds  American  Teinperance  House
[died  December  5,  1890.  aged  82-10-15. Ball,  Lebbeus,  steamboat-runner,  bds  Farmers'  Exchange Ball,  Silas  Rozier,  with  Josepli  Johnston,  res  North  Branch,  west  side [died,  Hyde  Park.  111.,  Deceml)er  31,  1891,  aged  84-6. Ballantine,  David  (B.  &  Sherman)^  N-  Dearborn,  bet  Kinzie  <k,  3Iich.
[died,  AVaukegan,Ill.,  :\[ay  10,  187.8,  aged  70, Ballantine.  RoI)ert.  sailor.
Ballantine  iSj  Slierman.  dry  goods  and  groceries,  122  Lake Ballard,  Addison,  carpenter, Ballingall,  Patrick,  attorney  (Smith  6c  B.),  bds  Illinois  Exchange
[died  November  21,  1858,  aged  — . Baislev,  John,  cigar  maker.  Dearborn  near  Lake   bds  Western  Hotel
[died  :yiarch  15,  1883,  aged  73. Baltz,  Abram,  cooper.  Th!)mas  E.  Tucker,  res  Piando]])h Banchalf,  John,  clerk
Bandle.  Willis,  blacksmith,  Stow"s  Foundry,  res  North  Branch,  w.<i(le Bannister,  T.,  overseer  Wood  6c  Ogden's  brickyard,  N.  Water Bannon,  Andrew,  teamster,  res  Randolph,  near  Franklin Barber,  Jabez,  lumber  merchant.  South  Water,  n.-w.  cor  Wells
[lost  on  Atlantic-Steamer  Pacific,  February,  l85f). Barkenbile,  Christian  [Uncle  Chris j,  car])enter  [d.  Sept.  11,  185(5,  a. — . Barker,  Peleg  A.,  Farmers"  Exchange,  35  Lake,  s.-w.  cor  Wabash  avo
[died,  Morris,  III.,  September  13,  1871,  aged  tM. Barker,  William,  carpenter
Barmm,  Charles  H.,  sailor  [died  August  23,  1805,  aged  CS-4-19.
Barnard.  Frederick  S.,  teacher  and  daguerrotypist,  cor  Clark  and  Lake Barnes,  Allan  Tate,  tailor.  J.  H.  Hodgson,  bds  [res  Warren,  III.
Barnes,  Mi.ss  Narcissa  A.,  teacher,  LaSalle,  bet  AVashington  and  Miidi- son  [dit'd,  Arlington  Heights,  III.,  January  8,  1878,  aged  7s.
Barnes,  Hamilton,  car[)enter.  Randol|)h,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle,  res  72 W.  Madison    [d.  at  hospital.  Na.diviUe,  Tenn.,  Feb.  22, 1862,  a.  50-2-4 Barnes. Seth, editor i>Vi//<?r Co re/K^//7.  Randoljdi,  bet  Wells  and  Franklin Burnet.  George,  mason.  Wm.  Worth inghanfs,  bds  Alanaion  House Barnum,  Truman,  laborer,  res  N.  Dearborn,  bet  Micldgan  and  Illinois
[died  July  25,  1819.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  35
B.irr,  James,  shingle  maker.  Aladison,  South  Branch Barrows  &;  Co.,  D.  A.,  confectionery,  etc.,  147  Lake,  res  same
[went  to  Galena,  111.,  and  died  there. Barrows,  A[rs.  Phila  A.,  147  Lake.
Barrows,  James,  agent  railroad  line,  bds  Tremont  House BarrN',  Andrew,  waiter.  City  Hotel,  Clark
Barry,  Edward,  laborer,  res  near  Xorth -Branch  Bridge.  Chicago  ave Barry,  Samuel  Stednian.  painter.  X.  S.  Cushing,  res  ]Monroe  near  Clark
[B.  ik  Gushing] Barry  tt  Gushing,  painters.  [])aitnershi2)  formed  December,  1843.     •    ^ Bartlett,  ,  res  4th  Ward
Bascom,  Kev.  Flavel,  1st  Presbyterian  Church,  res  n.-e.  cor  Clark  and Washington  [died,  Princeton,  III.,  August  6,  1890,  aged  S6.
Bascom,  Franklin,  res  3d  Ward Bassett.  George,  hostler.  City  Hotel Batcheller,  Ezra,  clerk  Xathaniel  Sherman,  jr.,  res  LaSalle  near  Lake
[died.  Grand  Haven,  Mich.,  Augast  18.  I8OO,  aged  G9. Bates.  Augustine  Seymour,  cabinet-maker  (Morgan  &  B.),  res  190  Lake [killed  earouieto  California  by  Indians,  near  HnmI)oldt,  Nov.,  *51. Bates,  E.  D.,  carpenter,  Randolph  cor  AVells Bates,  jr..  John,  auctioneer.  174  Lake,  prop  Illinois  Exchange,  res
South  Water  [killed  Ijy  locomotive,  July  14.  1888,  ao-ed  84-6  10. Bates,  Jacob  11.,  sni)erintcn'1cnt  Lake-Street  House  [died  unmarried. Baumgarten,  Charles,  cari)entcr.  res  Randolph  near  LaSalle
[died.  Freeport.  111.,  October  16.  1883. Baumgarten,  Maurice.  Illinois,  bet  X.  Dearborn  and  Wolcott
[died  Xoveml>er  1,  1858,  aged  77. Baumgarten,  John,  clerk.  Arthur  G.  Burlev  ct  Co.,  bds  'M.  Baumgarten
[died  *  Mich.,  about  1881.
Baxter.  Patrick,  laborer,  res  Lake
Bay,  Henry  B.,  carpenter,  bds  Patrick  Kelley      [died  March  10,  1860. Beach,  Cliarles,  bds  John  Beach  [died  1893,  aged  — .
Beach,  [Dr.]  James  Sterling,  printer,  bds  John  Beach
[died  May  16,  1885,  aged  61. Beach,  John,  contractor,  res  80  Randol})h  near  State
[died  September  9.  1850,  aged  54.. Beach,  John  Daly,  stage-driver,  Frink,  \A'alker  6c  Co.,  bds  JolufBeach
[died  Auo;iist,  1876,  aged  54. Beach,  Oscar  L.,  clerk,  County  Clerk's  otHce.  bds  (xeorgc  Davis Beach,  Samuel  Stewart,  a})prentice  printer,  bds  John  Beach
[died  March  25,  1884,  aged  5532^. Bcaman,  Abraliam,  shoemaker,  Solomon  Taylor
Beard>ley,  Hiram  Hoyt,  physician,  136  Lake,  res  Dearb.  nr  Randolph
[died  September  *28,  1867,  ag(.'d  — . liearup,  John  I.,  teacher,  res  Xorth  ^V'-iaer Beaubien,  Gen.  Jean  Bajjtiste,
[died.  Xaj)erville,  DuPage  Co.,  111.,  Jan.  25,  1873,  aged  al>out  SO. li'-aubien,  Mark,  U.-S.  light-house  k(;e})(;r.  res  River  street
[died,  Kankakee,  111.,  April  11,  1881,  aged  81.
.'■•■•' I
^6  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
Beaiiljien,  Henry,  [died  June  13,  1893,  aged  08.
Beaubicn.  William,
Jjeaiimout,  George  Anson  Oliver  (B.  &  Skinner),  res  State,  bet   Han- dolpli  and  AVasliin«;ton    [died,  Columbia,  Conn.,  Dec.  18,  184o,  a.  — . Beaumont  <Sc  Skinner,  attorneys  at  law,  02  Lake Bebb,  Maurice,  laborer,  bds  John  L.  Gray Becker,  Alexander  C,  merchant,  res  xN.  Clark,  cor Beccher,  George  Mather,  clerk,  Jerome  Beecher
[died,  Marysville,  Cal.,  18(51,  aged  38.
Beecher,  Jerome,  boot,  shoe,  and  leather  store.  100  Lake,  res  13  Lake
[died  March  17,  181)1.  aged  73. Beecher,  Louis,  res  Franklin,  bet  Lake  and  Randolph Beers.  Cyrenius  (Botsford  &  B.),  res  73  AVabash  av.  alderman  1st  ward
[died  February  35,  1878,  aged  ()4~.^. Belden,  AYilliam  E.,  carpenter,  ~\Y.  AVater,  res  Desplaincs,  bet  AY.  Yan Buren  and  Harrison  [died,  August  10,  1849,  aged  35-7-11.
Belkley,  ,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel
Bell,  James,  landscape  gardener,  4th  AYard Bell,  John,  Stow's  Foundry,  bds  Western  Hotel Bending,  James,  carpenter,  res  Wolcott,  bet  Kinzie  and  Michigan Bennett,  Abel,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  James  S.  Paine Bennett,  Miss  Marv  Brownell.  teacher  pul)lic  school  2,  district  1.  bds S.  C.  Bennett       ""  [died,  LaSalle,  111..  August  26,  1889,  aged  — .
Bennett,  Henry,  whitewasher,  alley  bet  ]\Ionroe  and  Adams Bennett,  Samuel  Curtis,  teacher,  res  and  school,  132  State
[died,  LaSalle,  HI..  1857,  aged —.
Bent,  Alphonso,  2)ainter,  Dearborn
[died,  Waynesville,  Mo.,  June  11,  1803,  aged  53. Bently,  John  (Jeffrey  <k  B.),  shoeinir  smith  and  iarrier Bently,  John,  laborer.  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard BerdelL  Charles,  cabinet  maker,  Daniel  A.  cl-^  Elisha  M.  Jones
[died  June  10,  1090,  aged  71 12^.
Berdell,  Nicholas,  musician,  res  AYashington.  n.-w.  and  near  Franklin
[died,  Englewood,  111.,  Feljruary  22,  1883,  aged  ^1.
Berg,  Adam,  tavern  and  grocery,  42  LaSalle      [died  October  12,  1849.
Berg,  Anton,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  Charles  E.  Peck
[died  May  5,  1895,  aged  70. Berg,  John,  drayman,  res  W.  Monroe,  l)et  Clinton  and  Jeilerson Berg,  Joseph,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  Charles  E.  Peck Bernard,  Jacob,  teamster Berry.  Jo<e])h,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard Best,  Henrv.  teamster,  N.  Canal,  bet  W.  Water  and  W.  Lake
[died  February  21,  1892,  aged  88. Best,  Mathias,  vinegar  manufacturer,  lake  shore  nr  14tli  st
...     [died  October  24.  1874.  aged  — . Better  Covenant,  Bandol])h,  bet  AYells  and  Franklin,  Seth  Barnes,  editor Bewsc}-,  George,  mason,  bds  Jolin  L.  Gray Bevgeii,  Peter,  sausage  maker,  X.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle
[died  December  27,  1875,  aged  02.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  "    37
Bickerdike.  George,  carpenter,  res  CanaL  bet  xVdams  and  Jackson
[died.  Knaresboroug-h,  Eug..  Xoyember  24,  1880.  aged  74. Eidwcll.  George  W.,  tin  and  coppersmith.  S.  J.  Surdam,  res  Dearborn Biffclow,  Arnold,  clerk,  II.  O.  Stone,  res  State,  bet  AVa>hington  and iMadison  [died  February  10,  lS»j8.'  aged  58.
Bigelow,  Henry  Winans,  dry  goods,  1:52  Lake,  res  Clark,  bet  AYasli- ington  and  INI adison  [died  (suicide)  February  8.  187o,  aged  04.
Biggs,  John,  sailor,  res  Market,  bet  Washington  and  ^Madison
[died  April  15.  1875,  sged  — . Bills.  George  Ralph,  clerk.  Horace  Norton  &  Co.,  bds  Treniont  House Bird,  John  Herman,  medical  studerit.  Dr.  D.  Brainard,  bds  City  Hotel Bishop.  Dardanus.  farmer,  res  cor  ^Y.  Lake  and  Jeflerson Bishop,  George,  res  Dearborn
Bishop,  Jas.  E.,  drv  goods  and  groceries.  181  Lake,  bds  T.  Greenwood [died.  Omaha,  Xeb.,  February  27.  18.95,  aged  86. Blackman.  Edwin,  clerk.  II.  II  3Iagie  &  Co.,  bds  ^Mansion  House
[died  April  12,  1886,  aged  70%. Blaesy,  Bernhard,  baker,  191  Lake,  res  same     [d.  May  10,  1883,  a.  72. Blaikie,  Andrew  (Ryer>on  eV:  B..)  bds  American  Temperance  House Blair.  Airs.  Xancy  Ann  Xewl)crry  [wid.  of  George,  tailor,  died  Fcl). 13,  1842,  aged  41],  res  200  State  [died  March  21i,  1873,  aged  70.
Blair,  George  AVashingtou,  apprentice.  Democrat,  bds  Mrs.  X'ancy
Ann  Blair  [died  December  23.  1888,  aged'55.
Blair,  ^Villiam.  hardware,  etc.,  Ill   S.  Water,  s.-e.  cor  Dearborn,  bds
Tremont  Hou>e Blakesley,  Harvey  A.  (Loyd.  B.  &  Co.),  bds  Mrs.  John  K.  Boyer Blakely,  John,  carpenter,  alley  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle Blanchard.  Francis  Gurtrev,  ca])italist,  res  45  WelL
'[died,  Brooklyn,  X.Y.,  ,  1872.
Blanrhard.  Jose])h.  blacksmith,  bds  Charles  FoUansbee ]>hindly,  Christopher,  clerk,  John  H.  Foster,  bds  same Blariey,  James  YanZant,  M.I).,  prof,  chemistry  Hush  Medical  College
[died  December  12,  18"; 4,  aged  543^. Blank.  AYilliam,  currier,  cor  Griswold  and  Taylor
Bliss,  Charles  Frcderi(;k,  carpenter,  A.  P<ck,  State,  south  of  Congress [died,  St.  Joseph.  .Alich.,  INSO.  aged  80.
B'.i-<,  Chas.  Frederick,  jr.,  compositor,  Ejpress,  bds  C.  F.  Bliss
[resides  at  Kacine,  Wis. Bliss.  Seneca  Carpenter,  clerk.  Charles  E.  Peck,  [now  at  Morris,  111, Blodgett,  Henry  Williams,  law  student,  Scammon  6c  Judd Boice,  John,  machinist.  Buffalo
Hoggs.  Charles  T..  carpenter,  res  and  shop,  east  side  State,  ^outh  of
YanBuren Bolles,  Xatlian  Howard,  land  agent,  res  Lake,  east  of  Dearliorn
[died,' Philadelphia,  Pa.,  February  14,  1801. Bond,  Harvey,  laborer,  le-  Clark Bond,  Heman  S.,  clerk.  Lovd.  Blakeslev  6^  Co.,  res  71  Adams
[died  August  1,  1851. Bond,  Hiram,  laborer,  east  of  Clark
^£
:  -1
^8  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY.    1S43.  I
I Bond.  Jamc>.  house  painter,  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn     -  I
Boone.  Levi  Day,  pliysician.  Oo  Clark,  res  lOG  State  |t
['Uth  mayor,  died  January  24,  1882,  aq;ed  74-1-K;..  |
Boorman.  John,  wagon  maker,  Franklin  I
[died,  Dc'Iavan,  O.,  August  12,  1884,  aged  — .  '
Booth,  Daniel,  carpenter,  cor  Jerterson  and  AY.  Washington  ;
[died,  Jefferson.  111.,  August  22,  1894.  aged  — .  t
Boston  Market,  cor  Lake  and  AYells.  Cly bourn  Sz  llovey.  props  .;'
Bostwick,  George  ]\[.,  bartender,  Illinois  Exchange  ^  I
Botsford,  I.,  tailor,  AYells.  bet  Randolph  and  AYashington
Botsford,  Jabcz  Kent  (B.  .fc  Beers).  109  Lake,  res  171  AYabash  ave  I
[died  June  8,  1887,  aged  75.  j;
Botsford  <k  Beers,  stoves,  hardware,  etc.,  109  Lake  I
Bowas.  John,  drayman,  res  South  AA'ater.  bet  State  and  AA^abash  a.ve
Bowen,  Charles  Henry,  apprentice.  Democrat,  res  Henry  B.)wen  }
[resides  Crawfordsvilk-.  Ind.  J
Bowen,  Erastus  (B.  &  Cole),  res  40  Alichigan  ave  i
[died.  Aurora.  Kane  Co..  111.
Bowen.  Erastus  Sclden  [veterinary  surgeon]    [died  Oct.  19,  188:>,  a.  (»9.
Bowen.  Henrv.  carriage  maker,  res  State  5:
'  [died,  Fulton  Co.,  O..  1883,  aged  70.
Bowen  &  Cole,  drv  goods  and  groceries,  80  Lake  "    ■
Bowes,  John  P..  John  Gage's  mill,  res  Clinton,  bet  Adams  &  Jackson
Bowman,  Ariel,  bookseller  and  i)Liblisher,  res  129  Dearborn,  n.-c.  cor
Madison  [died  July  8,  1844,  ai^cd  08.  \
Bowman.  Henrv.  druggist,  bds  Ariel  Bowman  f
[now  living  in  Oakland,  California.  %
Bowma>ter.  AYilliam,  cabinet  maker.  John  B.  Weir  i
Boyce.  Augu-tn<  D..  druggist.  Leroy  M.  Boyce.  bds  Daniel  B.  lleartt  :
Bovce.  Lerov  AFrrrick,  wholesale  aiid  retail  druggist  and  a|»othecarv.  1;
119  Lake  (Peck  i^  B.).  bd<  E.  AY.  AVillard  [d.  Julv  23,  1849.  a.  3;:i;. Boyer  jSnowhook  :.  Mrs.  Elizal-cth.  [wid.  of  John  K..  d.  Alch.  12.  1^43.
H.  •■)234|,  boarding  house,  L"):]  South  AYater.  4  doors  west  of  Clark
[died  Jun(>  29,  1870.  aged  7S. Boyer,  James  A..  sliii)-caulkcr.  bds  Airs.  Boyer     jd.  Oct.  9,  18<ifi.  a.  41.  :
Bover,  Dr.  A'alentine  Auiand,  ju^tice-of-thc-])cace,  ."),■)  Clark,  bds   Mrs.
J.  Iv.  Boyer  ■  [died  Alay  11,  1890,  aged  7'ii.;.  ;;
I3oyington,  Ciiarles  H..  <a])tain  schooner  CIkliIoUc^  res  Indiana.  Ijet
Pine  and  Saiul Boyland,  "William.  car[)entei'.  Yan  Buren,  bet  Clark  and  AVells Boynton,  Samuel,  carpenter,  rc<  147  \V.  Kinzie     (d.  Aug.     1882,  a.  — . lioyrs.  Jolin.  land-othce.  AV.  \Va-hington
Bracken,  John  (B.  A:  Tuller).  ie<  Wai>ash  ave  |
Jiracken  A:  Tiiller.  dry  goods  and  gioceries,  101  Lake  1
Brackett,  AVilliani  AV.,  editor  and  )>roprietor  (jhicnfjo  J'Jxpress,  92  f
Lake,  bds  American  Tempeiance  House Bradlov,  Asa  Foster,  citv  and  countv  survevor,  res  cor  Dearljoin  and
AVa>hington        :<li('d.*AIaplcwoo(b  HI.,  Feb.  20.  1892.  aged  SO-1-17.  j
JJradley,  iii'istol.  dentist,  s.-w.  cor  (.'lark  and  Lake,  bds  Mrs  .Merriam  |
>^;i,  )  .\'n:.[
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  39
Bradley,  Cyrus  Parker,  clci-k.  Horace  Xorton  &  Co..  res  218  ]\Iadisoiu bet  iVells  and  Franklin  [died  March  0.  1SG5,  aaed  ^^o.
Bradley.  Da^dd,  plow  maker.  Asahel  Pierce,  blacksmitli Bradley.  David  ^Morrill,  printer.  iJeruocrat  office,  res  10  Qiiincy
[died  September  C.  l^ioT.  aoed  40. Ijradley.  Joseph,  clerk.  William  H.  xVdams  &  Co. Bradlev.  Timothv  ^Vlathew.  check-clerk.  Horace  Xorton  ct  Co..  bds
[died  September  30,  1890.  aged  04 1^. Brady,  George,  constable,  res  near  N.  Ciark  and  N.  AVater  ;  d.  1800. Brady.  Alichael,  blacksmith.  X.  Water,  res  s.-e.  cor  Indiana  and  X.
LaSalle  [murdered.  May  29,  1852.  a.  — .
Brainard.  Daniel,  physician.  j)rof.  Rush  ^Medical  College,  51  Clark,
bds  City  Hotel       '  [died  October  10,  1800.  aged  0^..
Braise,  Mrs.,  dressmaker  and  tailoress.  X.  Water  near  Wolcott Brand.  Alexander  (^Murray  vfc  B.),  res  35-7  Cass,  s.-e.  cor  Hlinois
[died,  Aberdeen.  Scotland,  3[arch  24,  1870.  aged  05. Brayton,  H.  H..  physician,  res  and  othce.  119  Clark Breen,  John.  ])ackcr,  Arthur  G.  Burley  cV:  Co.
Breesc,  Robert  Bush,  clerk,  James  Hervey.  res  X.  Clark  near  Kinzie Brewster.  Elijah,  carpenter.  Jefferson Bridges,  Thomas  Ball,  carpenter.  W.  Lake.  4th  Ward
[died,  Oak  Park.  Cook  Co.,  111..-  February  17.  1887.  aged  75. Briggs.  Benjamin,  wagon  maker,  Adams  west  of  LaSalle Briggs,  Jeremiah,  mason,  res  south  of  Adams,  west  of  Clark Brinckerhotf,  John,  jJiysician,  49  Clark,  chequered  drug-store.  148
Lake  '  Idled,  Xew-York  City,  April  3,  1807,  aged  03.
Bristol  &i  Porter,  forwarding  and  commission  merchants.  South  Water n.-e.  cor  State    [first  warehouse  on  South  Side,  erected  fall  of  1839] Bristol,  Richard  Clark  (_B-  ^  Porter),  res  5  Dearborn  ])i
[died.  Brooklyn.  X.Y.,  July  10,  1800.  aged  — . Bri-tol,  Calvin  D..  saik)r.  re^  ^Michigan  ave lirock.  John  A.,  clerk.  James  E.  Bishop,  bds  James  T.  Durant
jdicd.  Livcrmore,  Cal.,  1887.
Brock,  3Iichael.  carpenter,  res  211  Lake
Hrock.  ]\[rs.  AFary.  straw  and  tuscan  hat  milliner.  211  Lake  :
Brock,  Thomas,  ex-justice  of  ])eace,  res  s.-e.  cor  >ra<Uson  and  Clark Brocksmidt.  J.  W.,  coo[)er.  J.  \l.  Tucker,  res  Michigan,  bet  LaSalle
and  AVelis Mrookes,  Fredeiick  AVm..  thirist,  bds  Samuel  Brookes Ihookes,  George,  clerk,  Ixls  Samuel  13rookes
'  [died,  Cleaverville,  111.,  Se[)teml)er  27.  1S54.  aged  37, iirookes,  Henry,  clerk,  [died  March  3,  1^S2.  aged  01.
i'rookes,  Josluia,  de])Utv  countv-clerk.  Ixls  Geo.  Davis
[left  for' Galena,  111..  March  23.  1«43,  returned  in  1S83. Lr<)()-kes,  Samuel,  flojist.  res  Clark,  bet  3Iadison  and  Monroe
[died  September  2,  1>575.  aged  81;-{. iir()(>kes,  Samuel  Marsden,  j.ortr.  S:.  landsca.  artist,  bds  Sani'l  Brookes [died.  SaiiFraiicisco,  Cal.,  January  31,  b*^92,  aged  70. J>rof»k<,  Hoiry  E.,  ship  car[)enter,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Ca.ss  and  Rush
'■^>^^  I
40  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
Brooks.  Thos.,  tailor,  10  Chirk,  res  Illinois,  bet  N.  Clark  and  Dearborn Brown.  Andrew  Jesse,  attorney  at  law,  l)ds  Henry  Brown Brown.  Asa  B.,  assistant-editor  IFestern  C/ft'zctiy  124  Lake Brown,  Charles  E.,  laborer  on  harbor,  l)ds  Samuel  Jackson Brown,  Clement,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel
[died,  Crown  Point,  Ind.,  Octol)er  30,  1881,  agud  70. Brown.  Francis  O.,  shoemaker,  John  B.  ]\ytcliell,  res  Dearborn,  bet
Washington  and  Kandol})h Brown,  George,  chairmaker.  Wells,  bet  Bandolpli  and  AVashington Brown,  George  Elijah,  ]>rinter.  Express  office,  bds  New-York  House Brown.  Henry,  city  attorney,  notary,  s.-w.  cor  Lake  and  Dearborn,  res 112-14  Wolcott.  near  Ontario  [author  "History  of  Illinois"!
[died  May  IG,  1849,  aged  (30. Brown.  Jeduthan,  attorney,  res  Sauganash  Hotel Brown.  Joseph,  laborer,  res  W.  Madison,  bet  'Yater  and  Canal
[died  before  December  24,  I80O. Brown.  Joseph  E.,  carpenter,  sho})  and  res,  254  Clark
[died  March  8,  l»Tli,  aged  Oo. Brown.  Lemuel,  blacksmith,  boarding  house,  142  Lake
[died  December  29,  1883,  iiged  90. Bnnvn,  liufus  B.,  warehouse  man.  John  P.  Chapin  ^  Co.,  res  180  Lake [died,  Burlington,  AYis.,  September  2,  1872,  aged  00. Brown,  Mrs.  Rufus  B..  dress  and  cloak  maker,  180  Lake,  up  stairs
[died  Pel)ruary  2,  1890,  aged  7:3. Brown,  Samuel.  1)lacksmith.  Dearl)orn
Brown.  Sam'l  Lockwood,  clerk,  A.  G.  Burley  c^  Co.,  bds  Wm.  H.  ]3rown Brown.  Simon  B.,  res  Ohio,  bet  Cass  and  Rush  [d.  Mar.  19,  1880,  a.— . Brown,  S.  C,  clerk,  Edwiji  P.  Clark,  bds  Ruel  Ambrose Brown,  Tliomas,  ca])tain  schooner  Warren,  IkIs  John  J.  Jackson Brown,  Thomas,  drayman,  res  N.  LaSalle,  bet  Ohio  and  Illinois Brown,  William,  grocer,  res  X.  AYater,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborji Brown,  AYm.,  bds  Sauganash      [died,  Xeva<la  City,  Cal.,  Dec.  3,  18.")0. Brown.  AYilliam  Ilubl^ard,  [cashier],  S  LaSalle,  (A.  G.  Burley  A:  Co.;, res  301  Illinois,  n.-w.  cor  l*iiie.  school  agent
[died,  Amsterdam,  Holland,  June  10,  18G7.  aged  72.
Browne,  Charles  Evarts        [school-teacher,  183r»-8;  a  resident  of  Alil-
waiikec  Co..  Wis.,  until  18G8;  later  a  real-estate  dealer  at  41  C4ark  -t;
residing  at  Glencoe,  III.,  died  180-.
Bryan.  Alex.  Brodie,  druggist  [died,  Lawtey,  Fia.,  PYb.  1801,  aged— .
Bryan.  Archil;:i!d,  teamster,  bds
Bryan.  Fred"k  Auu'ustus,  clerk,  Clarke  A:  Co.,  I»ds  Wa.sirton  Collee  Ho.
[died  Deconbt-r  17.  188G,  aged  <i7. Buchanan,  Nelson,  saddle  and  harness  maker,  Charles  E.  Peck
[died  October  1,  1858,  aged  '.)>^\^- Bucklev,  Xoidi.  pawnbroker.  corilandol})h  and  AYells
[died  befbre  June  22,  1^52. Bucklev,  Timothv,  butcher.  Fulton  .Market,  bds  City  Restaurant
idled  July  11,  ISYb Buddington,  John,  res  Randolj>h,  east  of  Clark
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.         .  4I
Bnell,  Horatio,  auction  and  commission,  dry  goods  and  groceries, stoves,  121  Lake
Buell,  Xormau,  printer.  Democrat  office,  bds  David  M.  Bradlev
Biilil,  Charles,  liat  and  ca])  st.)re,  129  Lake
Bumi)stead,  Thomas,  jr..  res  AVells,  bet  Lake  and  Randolph
Bunch,  Clybonrn  (col'd),  drayman,  res  Wells,  bet  Madison  and  Wr.sh
Burcli,  Isaac  Howe,  banker  (Xew berry  <fc  B.),  bds  City  Hotel
[died,  ^N'ice,  France,  April  9,  1884,  aged  (>8.
Biircky,  Frederick,  baker,  LaSalle,  bet  Lake  and  Randolph
Burdick,  Amos  AV..  carpenter,  res  Randolph  near  Franklin
Burdick,  E.,  porter,  3Iansion  Llouse
Burgess,  John,  wagon  maker,  184  Randolph,  res  ^Michigan  ave  '
Burhans,  Henry  J.,  livery  stabde  keeper.  Market
Burke,  John,  laborer,  south  of  W.  Jackson,  od  Ward
Burke,  Lewis,  south  of  ^[adison,  east  of  LaSalle
Burke,  Patrick,  tobacconist.  Henry  Chapman,  40  Clark
Burley,  Arthur  Oilman  (A.  G.  B.  &  Co.),  bds  Tremont  House
Burlev  &  Co.  (Wm.  H.  Brown),  Arthur  G.,  china,  glassware,  crockery, 105  Lake
Burlev,  Augustus  Harris  (S.  F.  Gale  &  Co.),  bds  :\Irs.  Haight
Burley,  Charles,  clerk,  S.  F.  Gale  &  Co.,  bds  S.  F.  Gale
Burling,  Edward.  carj)enter,  l)ds  Wm.  E.  ]VLinlev
[died  February  24,  1892,  a-ed  78.
Burnam,  Ambrose,  contractor,  res  AVabash  ave  near  Washington
[died  October  21,  1870,  aged  59.
Burnet,  John,  drayman,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Wolcott  and  IN".  Dearborn
Burton,  Edward,  merchant  tailor,  102  Lake,  res  same
[died,  Woodstock,  111.
Burton.  George,  sailor
Burton,  Henry,  tailor,  Edward  Burton,  bds  same
Burton,  Horace,  clerk.  ^S'orton  cV:  Tuckerman
Burton,  John,  vegetable  gardener,  N.  Clark,  s.-e.  cor  North  ave
[died  iMay  1(5,  1852,  aged  58.
Burton,  Stiles,  retired  merchant,  bds  American  Temperance  Huuse
[died  January  12,  1875,  aged  <U)-9-6.
Busch,  Franz,  wagon  maker,  John  Bnrgess
Busch,  John  B.,  blacksmith.  29  Alarket,  res  Randolph,  bet  Wells  and Franklin
Bushncll,  Wm.  IT.,  draughtsman.  Ogden  tfc  Jones  [story-writer  for  East- ern ])a])ers,  '•Sea-Foam,"  died.  Washington,  D.C.,  ^lar.  1, 1890,  a.  (K)^^.
Butlci".  Ilorar-e.  dry  goods  and  groceries,  forwarding  and  commission, South  AVater.  bds  Mrs.  Scth  Johnson       [died,  New  York  State.
Butler,  John  JL,  carpenter.  Alex.  Loyd,  bds  Clark,  bet  .Madison  and ^lonroe
lintler.  Lorin  G.  (Gray  &  B.),  res  Clark,  bet  Adams  and  Jackson
I'ntler,  Nathaniel  F..  clothier,  res  Alonroe
liutler,  Pdcli;ird.  laborer,  res  Ohio,  east  of  Rush  [d.  before  Feb.  3.  1851.
Butler,  William  Harrison,  ckrk,  Horace  Butler,  bds  Airs.  Seth  Johnson
[died  xVugust  10,  1878, ^iged  01-9-14.
i(-  <
,iH  .A'-^i'
42  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.  .      ^.
Butler.  William  ^roulton,  clerk,  Clias.  Walker  &  Co.,  bds  X.  F.  Butler [died,  llobart,  Ind.,  December  2,  1895,  a^ed  7."}.
Butterrleld.  George,  bds  Tremont  House        jdied  September  2'-?,  1854.  f
Buttertield.  Jonas,  captain,  res  Franklin  ^
Buttertield,  .Jonathan  Carver,  printer,  Fralrie  Farmer,  112  Lake,  f
bds  same  [died  July  7,  1854.  aged  4:i  \
Buttertield.  Justin  (B.  &  Collins),  U.-S.  attorney,  res  207  Michigan,  5
n.-w.  cor  Rush  [died  October  23,  1855,  aged  05.
Buttertield,  Justin,  jr.,  attorney.  5  Clark  near  South  Water         '  |
[died.  Washington,  D.C.,  ^larch  5,  1852,  aged  o;j,  «
Butterfield  k>  Collins,  attorneys  at  law,  105  Lakc;  |
Buttertield.  Lewis,  attorney  [died  Octol)er  27,  1845,  aged  28.  |
Buttertield.  William,  medical  student.  Dr.  Daniel  Bi-ainard  *
[First  graduate  Rush  Medical  College,  died  Jan.  13,  1878,  aged  57.  |
Buttertield,  William,  carpenter,  Clark  I
Butterworth,  ^NLrs.  Mary  Ann,  widow,  Xorth  AVater  near  Wolcott  |
Buxton,  O.  S.,  wagon  maker,  James  O.  Humphrey  |
Buzzard.  Si)l(nnon,  harbor  laborer,  Samuel  Jackson  •  I
Byrnes,  Michael,  porter,  Tremont  House,  res  91  Dearborn  |
[died  December  18,  1809,  aged  — .  |
Cady,  Dennis  Spencer,  proprietor  Lake-Street  House,  135-7  Lake Calhoun,  Alvin,  carpenter,  res  74  Randol])h    [d.  June  28,  1849,  a.  4530. Calhoun.  John,  retired  printer,  res  110  State
[the  tirst  ]n-inter  here,  died  Februrry  20,  1859,  aged  51- Calighan.  ]\Iathcw,  carpenter,  bds  Edward  Gavin  |
Callahan,  Cornelius,  res  Wells,  bet  Washington  and  Madison  |
Calson,  Charles,  house  painter.  Alexander  White  I
Cameron.  David,  waiter,  Tremont  House  |
Campljell,  Abel,  carpenter,  bds  Illinois  Exchange  ^
Campbell,  Jame-^,  carpenter,  res  Madison,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died  August  4,  1887,  aged  78;3. Cam})bell.  James,  printer,  res  X.  Clark,  bet  N.  Water  and  Kinzie  .  |
[died,  St. Louis,  ]Mo..  Xovember  8.  1875,  aged  05.  f
Cam])bell.  John,  laborer,  Alonzo  C.  Wood,  res  5th  AVard,  w.  of  Clark
[died  January  28.  1879,  aged  75. Canada  House,  north  side  of  X,  Water,  west  of  Dearborn  ave Canal-agent's  othce,  173  Lake,  Eli  S.  Prescott,  agent Cauda,  Louis  Joseph  Florimond,  florist,  Xorth  Wells,  near  Xorth  ave
[died,  Ravenswx^od,  111.,  February  9,  1880,  aged  03. Cantleld.  C.  A.,  merchant  tailor,  bds  Mrs.  Post  I
Carney,  Arthur,  laborer,  res  Canal,  bet  Randolph  and  Lake Carney,  James,  brewer,  07  S.  A\^tter,"res  same       [died  .March  29,  1850. Carney.  AVilliam,  sailor,  res  Alichigan,  bet  Rush  and  Pine Car])enter,  George,  groeer.  South  Water Carpenter,  James  JI.  (Stevens  ^  C.),  bds  Mrs.  (treen
[died  suieide.  Dearborn  ave,  187-.
Carpenter,  Jalnes  IL,  bd.^  Philo  Carpenter
.';o'>i»>7/  fjt
CHICAGO    DIRECTOR V,    1843.  43
Carpenter.  Job,  market  gardener,  554  W.  Lake   [d.  Dec.  5,  187G,  a.  63.
Carpenter.  John  D.,  laborer,  res  State
Carpenter,  Josejjh.  milkman.  5T0  W.  Lake     [died  Feb.  24,  1875,  a.  — .
Carpenter,  Pliilo,  res  ^y.  Randolph,  Carpenter's  Addition,  ])et  Sanga- mon and  ^rorgan  [died  August  0,  ISSO,  aged  813^.
Carpenter,  Samuel,  laborer,  res  Xortli  Water  near  Wolcott
[died  January  24,  1850,  aged  — .
Carpenter,  AVilliam,  grocer,  578  AVest  Lake
Carr.  AVilliam,  sailor,  res  Canal,  od  Ward
Carroll,  Owen,  laborer,  res  cor  W.  Washington  and  Jefferson
Carson,  James,  carjjenter.  res  State
Carson.  "VA'illiam,  \vagOii  maker,  Pamdolpb,  between  Wells  &  Franklin
Carter,  Thomas  Butler  (T.  B.  C.  &  Co.),  res  12(i  State
Carter,  Tlios.  B.  &  Co.  (Job  ]\[;igie,  Elizal)eth,  X.  J.),  dry  goods  and groceries.  118  Lake
Carthew,  Bichard,  laborer,  bds  Water,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington [shot,  December  0,  1850;  died  January  18,  1804,  agt'd  71.
Cary,  John  Marshall,  teamster  [died  May  17,  1895,  aged  70.
Ca^^e.  Elan,  carjtenter,  Scoville  &  Gates
Case,  John  Roman  (Norton  vt  C),  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn
[died,  Ehnhurst,  111.,  Septend)er  4,  1'877,  aged  74.
Casey.  Edward  (E.  &  Peter  C),  bds  John  C.-isev
[died  January  27,  1894,  aged  81.
Casey,  E.  <k  P.,  dry  goods,  uroceries,  and  auction  store,  85  I^ake
Casey,  Hugh,  tailor,  Scott  Bcnedik
Ca>ev,  John,  milkman,  res  ^Market,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington
[died  December  8,  1881,  aged  91.
Casey.  Patrick,  waiter,  ^Mansion  House     [died  June  15,  1802,  aged  73.
Casey,  Peter  (E.  <k  P.  Ca>ey),  clerk,  Isaac  Strail,  bds  John  Casey
Casey,  Stejihen,  driver,  Eli  S.  Prescott's,  35-7  Cass,  cor  Illinois
Ca>ey.  Tlicnnas,  laborer,  bds  John  Casey
Ca-han,  Stephen,  res  Michigan,  bet  Rush  and  Pine
Caspar,  W.  G.,  black-^mith.  LaSalle,  res  Wells,  bet  Washington  &  3Iad
Cassiday.  James  Hugh,  shi])  carpenter,  N.  I)ear]>orn
Cassidy.  P.  E.,  clerk,  Horatio  O.  Stone,  bds  same
Ca>ter,  Wm.  Harvey.  milhvri'_iht
[<lied,  Xile>,  Mich.,  :\Lirch  7,  1891,  aged  77-10-15.
Ca^tler.  IVIatthias,  laljorer,  Dutch  Settlement
Ca-swell,  Sidney,  cabinet-maker,  John  ii.  Weir    |d.  Mar.  1,  1889,  a.  80.
Catou,  John,  laborer,  res  Lake
Caton,  John  Dean,  attorney,  [died  July  30,  1895,  aged  88-4-11.
Cavanagh,  ]\lartin,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  near  North  Franklin
<^'avunaLih,  Jerry,  waiter,  Illinois  Exchange
Cavanaugh,  ^lichael,  c-arpenter,  res  St^Ue
Cawker.  Mathew,  projirietor  CJintou  Lunch.  11  Clark
<'hacksrield.  (Jeorge.  grocer,  etc.,  18  Clark    [died  Oct.  8,  1885,  aged  73.
Chalmers.  Thomas,  machinist,  Scoville  S:  Gates    [arrived  Dec,  2,  1843,
<^hamberlin,  [Rev.)  Jacob  Sherril  (Hamilton  <S^  C),  bds  Starr  Foot
Chandler,  Joseph,  res  Fort  J)earboru
l^
li'U.  -M
44  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Chapin,  John  P.  &  Co.  (Thomas  Dyer),  forwarding  and  commission
merchaiits.  South  Water Chapin,  John  Putnam  (J.  P.  C.  <k  Co.  and  Dyer  &  C),  res  Lake,  bet State  and  Wabash  are  [Sth  mayor,  died  June  3T,  1864.  aged  54,
Chapin,  Pascal  Paoli,  clerk.  J.  P.  Chapin  &:  Co.,  bds  xi.merican  Temper- ance Hou-^e Chapin.  Pichard,  laborer,  res  Kinzie  near  Cass Chapman.  Charles  TL,  res  Wells,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington Chapman.  Henry,  tobacconist,  88  Clark,  bds  Charles  II.  Chapman
[died  Auo-ust  0,  1851,  aged  48. Chapman.  Thomas,  res  AVolcott,  bet  Illinois  and  Indiana Chappel,  ]\Iarvin.  carpenter,  bds  Amer.  Temp.  House   [d.  Jan.  27,  1849, Cha})ronne.  Augustin,  gardener,  res  Xorth  ]3ranch,  north  end Chapronne.  Francis,  gardener,  res  ]S[orth  Pranch,  north  end Charleston.  Charles,  carpenter.  Fort  Dearborn,  res  Wolcott   [d.     187-. Chevill,  ]\[athe\Y,  shoemaker,  res  AY.AYater,  bet  Randol])h  and  Lake
[died  :\[arch  10.  1802,  aged  01. Chicago  Hotel,  n.-e.  cor  AV.  Lake  and  N.  Canal,  Geo.  W.  Rogers,  pro]> Chicago  Temperance  House,  17  and  19  LaSalle,  David  L.  Roberts.  pro}> Childs,  Shubal  Duvis,  city  sealer,  wood  and  metal  engraver,  Clark,  res 3d  AVard  [died,  Evanston,  111.,  January  iK  1870,  aged  71.
Clioulet,  3Iichel  Alexandre,  carpenter,  res  Dearborn   [died  1854,  a.  47. Chovin,  Charles,  clerk,  Tuthill  King,  bds  same  [resides  St.  Charle<.  111. Christian.  David  William,  carpenter,  bds  American  Exchange Christian.  John,  shoemaker,  P.  P.  Robinson Christie,  James,  laborer,  bds  Richard  Butler Christv,  Nathan,  laborer,  res  Canal,  bet  Lake  and  X.  Water
[died  July  10,  1855,  aged  50. Christy  &  Dunham,  car])enters,  N.  Water  near  Kinzie Christy,  Rumsey  (C.  6z  Dunham),  cor  ^Michigan  and  Wolcott Church.  John  Coleman,  harness-maker,  C.  E.  Peck,  Ixls  Chicago  Tem- perance IbuHe Church.  'J'homas,  drv  goods  and  groceries,  111  Lake,  res  55  Lake
[died  June  25,  1871,  aged  70} o. Church,  William  Linnreus.  clerk,  Dver  &  Chapin,  res  127  State
[died,  Hyde  Park,  October  22,  1880,  aged  04. Churchill.  Jesse,  cow  herd,  res  175  Lake
[died.  Riverside,  Cook  Co.,  111.,  A])ril  5.  1887.  aged  !)0. Cinfal,  Dennis,  laborer,  res  X.  Dearborn,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie City  Hotel,  n.-w.  cor  Clark  and  RandoljJi,  Jacol)  Russell,  prop City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn,  J.  W.  Steele,  ])rop
Clancy,  Mark  ]>ailey,  house  painter,  Alex.  White.  Ixls  James  Rockwell Clark,  Agi'ilus  P.,  medicine-  manufacture.  X.  Ilalsted Clark,  C.  P.,  clerk,  Edwin  P.  CIark,-bds  Humphrey  Clark Clark,  DeManiis,  clerk,  V.  S.  Lovell.  bds  Chicago  Temperance  Hou-e Clark,  Edwin,  gror-er,  W.  Lake
^'lark,  PMwin  P.,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  154  Lake,  bds  Hump.  Clark Clark,  Elislia,  carpenter,  res  W.  AVater,  bet  Washington  and  Aladison
[died  July  28,  1853,  aged  5.;.
<i»;.>i    '•■•*«    -js.-i
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  4$
Clark,  Francis  (C,  Haines  &  Co.).  bds  American  Temperance  House
[died,  Cleavervillc  (now  Oakland),  June  12,  18G0.  aged  — . Clark,  Haines  6:  Co.,  (Francis  C,  John  C.  Haines  and  Edward  Parsons.)
dry  goods  and  groceries.  KiS  Lake Clark,  Horace,  baker,  LaSalle
Clark,  Humphrey,  boarding  house,  Indiana,  bet  Cass  and  AVolcott Clark,  John  D.,  clerk.  A.  G.  H(JJjie  ["printer,  went  to  AYashington,  D.C. Clark,  Jonas  Coe,  exchange  broker,  21  Clark   [died  by  poison  in  AYis. Clark,  Lewis  AY.,  hardware,  iron,  nails,  etc.,  128  Lake
[died  March  31,  1855,  aged  -lo* Clark.  O.  J.,  ]>ainter,  res  Hastings Clark-Street  ALarket. Clarke,  Abraham  Fuller,  druggist,  (C.  ct  Co.),
[removed  to  and  a  resident   of  Milwaukee  during   1841    to   1870: thence  to  Marietta,  Ga.,  where  he  died.  March  2.  188(1.  aged  71-4-7. Clarke  &;  Co.,  druggists,  manufacturers  of  lard  oil  and  candles,  102
Lake,  factory,  Indiana,  bet  AYolcott  and  Cass Clarke,  George  P..  druggist.  Clarke  d:  Co Clarke.  Henrv  B..  farmer,  Michigan  ave,  n.-c.  cor  16th  Street
[died  July  28,  1840,  aged  48. Clarke,  Henry  \Yilcox,  attorney  at  law,  30  Clark,  bds  Airs.  Post
[died  January  25,  1892,  aged  77. Clarke,  Samuel  Clarke  (C.  «&  Co.),  bds  Trcraont  House
[at  -Marietta,  Ga.,  since  Sept.,  1871. Clarke,  AYilliam  Hull  (C.  &  Co.),  bds  AA'ashington  Coffee  House
[died  August  5,  1878,  aged  ()5-10-l0. Clarkson,  Jame^  J.,  printi-rs'  apprentice,  bds  Robert  K.  Clarkson Clarkson,  Robert  R.,  bootmaker,  AYilliam  H.  Adams  &  Co.,  res  alley
bet  LaSalle  and  AVells Clary,  Steph<'n  X.,  clerk,  Illinois  Exchange Clans.  Joseph,  engineer  harbor  machine,  res  Illinois,  bet  Dearborn  and
AYolcott Cleaver,  Charles,  grocer,  soap  an<i  candle  maker,  177  Lake
[died  Octo]>er  27,  1893,  aged  78. Cleaver,  Jose]jh  AA'raigh,  cabinet  maker,  J.  B.  AYeir  [at  Portland.  Ore. Cleaver,  Thomas  Barker,  soap  and  oil  maker,  bds  Charles  Cleaver
[died,  Dubuque,  la., ^'lenient,  Stei)hen.  caj)tain  steamljoat  ClKtmivon
[died.  Oconomowoc,  AVis.,  August  7.  1S04,  aged  81. Cleveland.  Alva,  ornamental  jiainter,  alley  bet  State  and  AYabash  ave. res  Madison,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle  ■     "
[died,  Dcprlield,  Kan.,  Felnaiary  13,  1891,  aged  86. CiifTord,  E.  AL,  portrait  ])ainter.  6  Clark Clifford.  Jame-.  wagonmakcr,  Scoville  <fc- Gates,  res  Randolph,  bet
Franklin  and  Madison ^'Hllbrd,  John,  carpenter,  X.  Water,  west  of  Clark  Street  bridge <  linton,  James,  laborer,  (rurdon  S.  Hubbard
<^'ly}ionrn,  Archibald  ((;.  ct  Hovey),  res  North  Branch,  city  and  county ''cef  and  pork  inspector     [612  Elston  ave,  died  Aug.  23,  1872,  a.  70.
?t^
i'nu  {iT»%ui
46  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Clybourn  &  IToveY,  butchers.  Clark  and  AVestorn  Markets  |
Cobb,  Geo.  W..  clerk,  Marcvi-;  C.  Stearn>.  bd>  Treniont  House   [died  |
Cobb.  Silas  Bowman,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  171  Lake,  res  75  |
Michiuan  ave.  s.-w.  cor  Lake  \
Cobiirn,  Isaac,  carpenter,  res  Dearborn  | Cochrane,  John,  waiter.  City  Hotel      [died  January  12,  ISSG,  aued  03. Coe.  John  S.,  blacksmith,  Asahel- Pierce,  bds  \\ .  Lake,  near  X.  Canal Cee,  Thomas,  cabinet  maker,  cor  Lake  and  Franklin,  bds  Sauganash
Coe.  ,  cabinet  maker,  ]Manahan  A:-  Jacobus,  bds  Thos.  Manahan  ^
CofHn,  3rrs.  ^Hariiet  Delia  Dole  (Ilichards).  widow  of  Joseph  AVarren  \
Ciiasc],  boarding,  res  Illinois,  bet  Pine  and  Sand  i [died.  Crystal  Lake,  111.,  April  12,  1888,  a-ed  90.                '  |
Cohen,  Peter,  ready-made  clothing,  Lake  \
[suicide,  Algiers,  opposite  New  Orleans,  La.  ■;
Coil.  Patrick,  laborer,  cor  Kinzie  and  LaSalle  .=
Coll.y  H.UHe  ^         ■      ,      ..       :  |
Colby,  William,  bds  Coll)y  House,  Wells,  (alderman  4th  Ward.)  I
[died,  Norfolk,  Va.,  summer  of  18G4.  ;^ Cole.  Parker  >[.  (Bowen  vfc  C),  county  poor  master,  bds  Erastus  Bowen               ,   J
[died  June  30,  1877,  aged  --.  |
Coleman,  Ira,  foreman,  Daniel  Taylor,  res  215  Lake  "\
Collier,  Charles  A.,  clerk,  land  otlice,  res  X.  Clark,  s.-e.  cor  Kinzie  {
Collins,  Ezra.  140  Lake,  res  S.  B.  Collins    [died  1849,  agx-d  70.  f
Collins,  George  (Samuel  B.  Collins  &  Co.),  res  Samuel  B.  Collins  I
[died,  Evanston.  Cook  County,  III,  Octoljer  22,  185G.  aged  — .  |
Collins,  Isaac,  clerk,  S.  B.  Collins  ^  Co.,  res  S.  B.  Collins  "  |
[died  1843,  aged  — .  |
Collins,  James  11.,  attorney  (P>utterfield  *fc  C),  res  15  Lake  |
'  [died,  Ottawa,  111.,  July  14,  1854,  aged  50.  |
Collins,  Patrick,  waiter.  Farmers'  Exchani:{e  |
Collins,  Samuel  B.  vfc  Co.,  boots,  shoes,  and  leather,  140  Lake  |
Collins,  Samuel  Bassett  (Samuel  B.  C.  &  Co.),  res  07  Washimrton  I
[died  Ai)ril  5,  1855;  aged  49.  >
Columbian  House,  11  ;ind  13  Wells,  Sweet  A:  Doolittle,  pro})s  I
Comstock  *fc  Ackley,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  82  Lake  |
<'omstock,  .].  D.,  clerk  and  law  student,  Arnold  ifc  Ogdeu  |
Comstock.  J.  S.  (C.  &  Ackley).  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn  |
[died,  SanFrancisco,  Cal.,  November  2,  1850.  |
Comstock,  Luke,  laborer.  Frink.  Walker  ^  Go's  stable,  res  Wabash  ave  |
Congrave,  John,  shoemaker,  Joseph  E.  Ware  |
Conley,  Mathew,  steward  .      ■  |
Conley,  Peter,  boardin^i-house.  North  Water  '  '  ■  I
Conley,  Phili]),  sailor  "  I
Connolly,  John,  laborer,  res  Kinzie,- bet  N.  Clark  and  N,  LaSalle  f
Connor,  James,  laborer,  Sylvester  Marsh  |
Connor,  I'atrick,  laborer,  res  W.  Lake,  near  N.  Canal  |
Connor,  Thoniiis.  cabinet  maker,  cor  Lake  and  Franklin,  bds  Saugi'.nash  |
<'onstantine.  Patrick,  laborer,  res  bet  Michigan  and  Illinois.  5th  Ward  | Cook,  Charles  W.  (C.  im  SurdamJ,  bds  American  Temperance  House
[(iie<l  1845.  aged  41.
■'r' ■■■■>'.  i{)   .%•*/   "0
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  47
Cook.  George,  bartender,  hds  xVnierican  Temperance  House
Cook,  George  Cliurcliill,  assistant.  T.  Cliiirch  [d.  A])ril  18,  1884,  a.  73.
Cook.  Isaac,  canal- land  agent,  res  cor  Franklin  and  Kaudolpli
[died,  Eureka  Springs.  Ark.,  June  2o,  188(1,  aged  To. Cook.  John,  tailor,  res  Jefferson,  bet  W.  Kandolpli  and  Washington Cook.  Josiah  P..  baker,  res  ^Michigan  ave
Cook  (fc  Surdain,  proprietors  American  Temperance  House,  oG  Lake Cook.  Thomas,  teamster.  Desplaines.  south  of  Kandolpli
.[died.  AVestern  Springs.  C(>ok  Co..  111..  Feb.  1.  1885,  ao-ed  80. Cooke,  Adreon,  grocer,  North  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  North  State Cooke,  Horatio  Nelson,  turner,  Franklin,  bet  Lake  and  South  Water Cooler,  James,  mason,  bds  Washington  Hall Cooley.  Miss,  dress  and  cloak  maker.  17.j  Lake Cooper.  John  W(  llingt(Hi,  teamster,  foreman  canal,  res  —  Kinzie
[died  :\tarch  15,  1893,  aged  67-8-21. Corbidge.  John,  cutler  and  grinder.  11)7  Randolph,  bet  Wells  and
Franklin  [died  June  1,  1887,  aged  (>^}^.
Corbin,  D.  H.,  shipcarpenter,  res  bet  State  and  Clark,  south  of  Jackson Corev,  John,  })roeurer,  4th  Ward  [died  April  12,  1849.
Corriiran.  Michael,  blacksmith  [died  October  3,  1878,  aged  68.
Corrigan,  William,  drayman,  bds  S.  Water     [died  July  15,  1879,  a.  75. Couch.  Ira  Howes,  [1812  veteran],  bds  Tremont  House
[died  July  25,  1845,  aged  82. Couch.  Ira,  proprietor  Tremont  House,  s.-e.  cor  Lake  and  Dearborn
[died,  Cuba,  February  28,  1857,  aged  50}^. Couch.  James,  superintendent  Tremont  House,  bds  same
[died  February  10,  1892,  aged  92. Codghlin.  Bryan,  blacksmith,  res  Randolph,  bet  Franklin  and  Market Counihan,  C<n-nelius,  currier,  Gurnee  Sc  Matteson,  ])ds  G.  Counihan
[died  March  16,  1890,  aged  60. Counihan,  Gerald,  mason,  res  s.-w.  cor  L'nion  and  W.  Washington
[died  June         1849. Courmayer,  Braus.  laboier.  bds  Canada  Home Court-House,  s.-w.  cor  Clark  and  Kandol))h Courtin.  Henry,  sailor,  res  N.  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott Courtney,  Capt.  Henry,  sec'y  Mariner's  Temperance  Society Covey,  Asa, Covey.  John,  carjjenter
Cowan.  George  W..  blacksmith,  Ilandolph,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle C'owens.  Thomas,  laljorer,  res  W.  AN'ater,  l^et  Canal  and  Clinton Cowper.  Edward,  intelligence-agent  [died  June  26,  1854,  aged  50.
Cox.  Andrew  Jackson  (.Jack),  tailor.  21  Clark,  bds  3Iansion  House Cox.  A.  J.  it  Co..  tailors.  21  Clark C'raft.  Geopge  W.,  shoemaker,  John  B.  Mitchell Cramer,  II.,  professor  of  music.  Clark,  bet  AVashington  and  Madison Crane,  Orson,  teamster,  bds  Washington  Hall C'rarv,  Oliver  .V.,  teamster,  res  Wolcott.  bet  Kinzie  and  Michigan Crawford,  William,  drayman,  alley  bet  N.  Clark  and  LaSalle,  5th  Ward,
now  North  Water  street  [died  August  7,  1872,  aged  61.
l-n-  f'  li,
\.:  ( >^'  I
h.  U
48  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Crissmau.  John  ^L,  laborer  ^  •    -r
Crocker,  Josiah  Dunton,  whitewasber,  res  171  Clark
[tiled  December  28,  1888,  aged  82. Crosjhan.  B.  W.,  bartender.  Eagle  Saloon,  10  Dearborn Crone.  Adams,  tailor,  res  Xortli  "Water,  near  ^Y()lcott  '""'■
Crosbie,  John,  sailor,  res  near  Franklin,  bet  K.  Water  and  Kinzie Cross.  Antoune,  sailor,  res  Indiana,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott Crouse.  Anton,  tailor.  Elijah  Smith  '       ■
Crow,  William  E.,  car-driver,  res  State
Crowly,  Cornelius,  laborer,  res  X.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  I^aSalle Cniver,  John  (C.  &  Seuser),  car2ienter,  res  N.  Clark,  s.-w.  cor  jNIichigan
alderman  5th  ward  [died.  California.  1851.
Cruver  &;  Senser,  builders.  N.  Clark,  bet  Kinzie  and  .Michioan Cumberland.  Charles,  operator,  Clarke  &  Co.'s  oil  factory,  Indiana  i  |
Cumberland,  William,  operator,  Clarke  &  Co.'s  oil  factory,  Indiana  I
Cunniniihara,  Ilenrv,  constable,  X.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn  *
[died  Mv.y  2,  1879,  aged  73. Cunningham.  AV.  M..  clerk.  Leroy  ^I.  Boyce
Cure,  John,  laborer,  res  3louroe  :  ■':
Cure,  Peter,  grocer.  li)o  Lake,  res  same Curran,  Bernard,  tailor.  Scott  Bcnedik
Curtis,  Charles  II.,  butcher.  [died  January  3,  1886,  aged  74.
Curtis,  .Jacob  S..  water  borer,  bds  ^lichael  ^IcDonald Curtiss,  James,  State's  attorney,  13tj  Lake,  res  W.  Randolph,  bet  May
and  Ann     [!)th  mayor,  died',  Joliet,  III,  November  2,  1859,  aged  5t). Curtiss.  J.  W.,  gunsmith,  res  cor  North  Water  and  Wolcott Cushing,  Nathaniel  Sawver,  house  ])ainter,  41  State  near  Lake,  res  same I  died,  Lombard.  111.,  May  13.  1889.  aged  84-5-0. Cutraore,  Henry,  grocer.  West  liandolph,  bet  W  Water  and  Canal Cutter,  Amos  F.,  harness  and  trunk  maker,  Lake,  bet  Wells  &  Franklin
Daggitt.  .Joseph,  cabinet-maker  and  joiner,  bds  Farmer's  Exchange
[now  at  Glencoe.  III. Daily,  Barry,  drayman
Daily,  John  l*.,  carpenter,  bds  Temperance  House,  North  Water Dalton,  .Alichael,  laborer,  res  ^^'olcott.  l)et  N.  Water  and  Kinzie Daly,  Charles,  slioemaker.  Thomas  3Ielvin.  bds  Ifeury  Cunningham Daly,  .John,  pedler.  S.  Water,  l)et  Wabash  and  Mich.ave  [d.  3Iar.  IsfO. I^aly,  John,  carpenter,  n.-w.  cor  North  Water  and  North  Dearborn
[died  April  9,  1807,  aged  5(.'. Dana,  Lorenza.  cleric.  Johonnett.  Wells  cV-  Co. Dana,  Patrick,  teamster,  Alson  S.  Shwman
Daniels.  Horace,  coacli  driver,  res  AV'clls,  alley  south  of  Randolph Daniels,  James,  driver.  Dexter  Graves'  livery  stable Darling,  William,  blacksmith,  "William  B.  Stevens Darrow.  Sidney  L.,  milkman,  Michigan  ave Daus,  D.,  clerk,  Horatio  ().  Stone,  bds  Michigan
;..  ii
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.  49
David,  William,  boot  and  shoemaker,  172  Lake
Davidson,  Daniel,  clerk.  Horace  Norton  &  Co.,  bds  Am.  Temp.  House [died,  insane,  Jacksonville,  111.,  December  30,  1808,  aged  46. Davidson,  Douglas  X  (.J.  Johnson  ct  Co.),  bds  J.  Johnson Davis,  David  ]M.  Parker,  agent,  Frink,  Walker  &  Co.'s  stage-office
[died  Octol)er  (>,  18T8.  a.u-ed  G7. Davis,  Elisha  Webster,  clerk,  Norton  «fc  Tackerman
[died,  Memphis.  :Mo„  March  10,  1882,  aged  OO^^.
Davis,  George,  clerk,  county  commiss'rs'  court,  county-clerk,  107  Lake,
res  Canal  near  AV.  Washington  [died  January  4,  1858,  aged  50.
Davis,  John,  tailor.  North  Water,  near  Kinzie    [d.  A])r.  2S,  I880,  a.  08.
Davis,  Samuel  N.,  lime  manufacturer,  bds  Alson  S.  Sherman
[died  October  7,  1848,  aged  34. Davis,  William  H.,  deputy  sheriff,  Samuel  J.  Lowe's  office
[died  .January  21,  1801,  aged  — . Davisson.  Alfred  W.,  count v  physician,  77  Clark,  res  same
[died,  Atlanta,  Ga.,  July  17,  1895.  aged  80. Davlin,  John,  auctioneer,  State,  s.-e.  cor  Lake
[died,  Waukegan,  January  10,  1883,  aged  about  90. Day.  AVilliam,  proprietor  LaSalle  House,  50  LaSalle,  n.-w.  cor  Randolph Dean,  James,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  James  S.  Paine Dean,  Philip,  teamster,  230  Madison,  s.-e.  cor  Franklin
[died  Novem])er  15,  1801,  aged  57. Deiden,  .Jacob,  grocer,  North  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn Deinback,  Francis,  carpenter,  res  Dutch  Settlement Delamey.  Michael,  laborer.  Market,  bet  Wasiiington  and  Madison I>elap,  Miss  Maria,  milliner,  142  Lake,  bds  E.  Brown Delingan,  John,  laborer,  3Iarket.  Ijct  Randolph  and  AVashington Dellicker,  George,  grocer,  Lake,  bds  Trcmont  House
[died  (suicide?)  in  Lake  ^Michigan,  July  — ,  1849. Democrat,  Ch^'cfff^/o,  107  Lake,  John  Wentworth,  editor  and  pro]). official  paper,  first  number  issued  Nov.  20.  1833,  by  John  Calhoun DeAIout,  Cornelius,  shoemaker,  Sanmel  J,  Grannis Dempsey,  John,  boarding  house,  5th  Ward        [died  January  14,  1859. Dennis,  l-^dward  M.,  bds  Dr.  David  S.  Smith Dennis,  John
Dennis,  Airs.,  bds  Dr.  David  S.  Smith Dennison,  Daniel,  butcher.  Kidgely  Place,  nr  Lake Dennison,  AVilliam  H.,  l)Utchei-,  IJidgely  Place,  nr  Lake Densmore,  Eleazer  "Woodworth,  clerk.  Klisha  S.  &  Julius  AVadsworth
[died  Noveml)er  5.  1888,  aged  08. Deperling,  Jol)n  G.,  basket  maker,  res  N,  Water  near  A\^olcott Deuel,  AVilliam  C.  bartender,  Tremont  House,  l)ds  same DeAVolf.  Calvin  (Freer  A:  DeW.).  res  Ihijfalo.  s.  of  Jackson,  c.  of  Clark DeAVolf,  Charles,  shoemaker,  bds  Calvin  DeAVolf
[died.  Pock  Island,  111..  Alay,  1852,  aged  31. He  Wolf,  Krastus,  bds  American  Temperance  House Dexter,  Albert  Ai);.'ustns.  clerk,  K.  S.  tV;  J.  AN'adsworth,  res  Dearborn Diamond,  Martin,  laborer,  res  alley  near  North  AVater
1
I
.C<'>*'  r,}  !    ,■•;.((  ft  1
50  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1843.         \  '
Dickersoii,  .  farming-mill  maker,  James  V.  Dickey
Dickey.  Hugh  Tliompson,  attoniey,  10;]i^  Lake,  bds  City  Hotel.  ;;!(;(i-- man  1st  ward  [died,  New-York  City.  June     18!)2,  ai^vl  — .
Dickey,  James  Yaruiim,  fanning-mill  maker,  etc.,  K.  Caiml  m  W.  Lake
[died  Octol»er  12,  1873,  ao-iMJ  TO, Dickey,  John  Butler,  son  of  Jas.  Y..  killed  at  tire  of  Oct.  U),  l^.-,7.  hv
fiilling  wall  at  110  Lake  st,  aged  24-0-1 Dickinson,  Augustus,  City  Eating  House,  Dearb'n.  bet  Lake  <N:  S.  A\  ater
[died  January  18,  1891,  ag.  d  74. Dietrich,  Lawrence,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Dietrich,  Yeit,  match  maker,  res  Dutch  Settlement Dike,  Henry  Butler  (^lorey  &  Dike),  bds  Isaac  Dike
[died  June  26,  1880.  ag«nl  57. Dike,  Isaac,  boot  and  shoemaker.  9  Dearborn      [d.  Sept.  8,  1860,  a.  55. Dike,  James,  groceries  and  provisions,  11  Dearborn Dimmock  tt  Stow,  house  and  sign  painters.  202  Lake Dimmock,  Edward  (D.  &  Stow),  south  of  ^Monroe,  west  of  Clark
[died  1800,  aged  48.
Dinet,  Jose[)h,  restaurant,  48  Clark     [died  February  2.  1884.  aiii'd  — . Diversey,  31ichacl  (Lill  ct  D.),  res  near  St.  Clair  and  Chicago  ave
[died  December  12,  1809,  ;iged  — . Dixon,  John,  barber,  Clark,  res  Lake,  1st  "Ward Dixon,  AYilliam.  carpenter,  X.  Dearborn,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzic
[died  July  24,  1807,  aged  02. Dobson.  B.  E.,  drover,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel Dodge,  Darwin  D..  teamster,  res  Franklin Dodge,  Harry  (Dupley). Dodge,  John  Cabot  (Parker  &  D.),  res  AVolcott.  n.-w.  cor  Ontario
[died,  insane,  near  Boston,  Mass..  Fel)ruary  11,  1889.  ag -d  — . Dodge,  Martin  (Goold  A:  D.),  bds  X^athaniel  Goold
[died,  Montague,  ]Mieh.,  Deceml)er  IJl.  1882.  agrd  — . Dodge.  L'sel  Stillman,  carpenter,  bds  .Morrison's  Row,  Clark
[now  at  Xiles.  .Miclj. Dodson,  Christian  Bowman,  [died.  Ccneva.  III.,  Jan.  :!.  bs91,  a.  M-G-iS. Dodson,  Henry,  mason.  Alonzo  C.  \Yood  [died  May  15,  1885,  aae<l  '»(>. Doggett,  Joseph  Barker,  iron,  nails,  etc.,  02  Lake
[died  July  20,  1898,  a-v,]  TO. Dole,  George  Wasliington  (X^ewbcrry  tV:  D.).  .Michigan,  bet  Bush  aii'l
Pine,  alderman  Olh  ward  [died  April  18.  1800,  aued  — -
Dole,  J.  L.,  billiard  saloon,  20  Clark,  bds  Isaac  L.  Milliken Dole,  Lewis  G..  clerk,  lottery  office.  Dearborn,  res  State Dolese,  John         [left  in  1841  for  Loraine.  France;  tlied  then-  in  ]>02. Dolese,  Peter  [in  Peru,  111.,  died  February  14,  1802,  aged  02-1-14.
Done,  J.,  laborer  on  harbor,  res  Fort  Dearborn Donivan.  Dennis,  saddler  and  harness  maker.  Silas  P>.  Cobb Donlin,  James,  blacksmith.  X^.  Wad  r.   hct    Dearborn   and  Clark,  n  s
Kinzie,  bet  Dearhorn  and  Clark  (died  1852.  a^vd  58.
Donlin.  John,  grocer,  cor  Xorth  Water  and  Clark,  near  bridge Donnelly.  James  Moi-ris,  livery,  91  Randolidi       [d.  July  8,  1858,  a.  00.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.         _~  5 1
Donoliue,  Daniel,  laljorer.  Xortli  Water  ucar  Franklin  .     .
Donohue,  James,  laborer  on  harbor
Dony,  Jacob,  cabinet  maker.  ^Vlichigan.  bet  AVolcott  and  Dearborn
[died  January  15.  1S79,  aged  Goio.. Doolittle,  Lonis  A.  (Sweet  vt  D.),  res  Columbian  House Doty.  Theodorus.  hotel.  a1>out  12  miles  west     [d.  June  11.  1S85,  a.  83.^^. Dougherty.  3Iartin.  hostler,  ^lansion  House
Dougherty.  Owen,  laborer.  X.  AVater  near  Wells   [d.  Aug.  9,  1872,  a.  .51. Doun.  William.  Stow's  foundry
Dow.  John  I.  (John  I.  Dow  vS:  Co.).  res  Randolph,  bet  LaSalle  &  AVcUs Dow.  John  I.  ik  Co..  house  and  sign  painters.  40  Clark Downing.  Thonias.  butcher.  Archibald  Clybourn
Do^Tis.  Abel  Sidney,  clerk,  H.  &  E.  Smith       [d.  June  :'0.  1883,  a.  Gl. Downs,  Augustus  Gay,  clerk,  Tlios.  B.  Carter,  bds  ]\[rs.  Seth  Johnson
[died  October  2.-),  1878.  aged  GO. Downs.  Myron  Day.  grocer.  12  Dearborn  [died  July  30.  1801.  a.  70  6. Doyle,  Michael  (Andrus  &  D.),  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn
[died  November         1851.  aged  — . Doyle,  Simon,  merchant  tailor.  2'^9  Kinzie    [d.  Sept.  28.  1881,  a.  7532- Doyle,  William  K  .  carpenter,  res  Indiana,  bet  X.  Clark  and  Dearborn Drake.  Jerome  D..  laborer,  south  of  .Jackson,  3d  AVard Drew.  Gectrge  C.  l'0()kkee]»er.  .James  Peck  &  Co.,  [died Drew,  jr.,  John,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel Drury,  Benjamin  C..  teamster,  .John  Gage Dubois.  .  pattern  maker,  Scoville  ik  Gates,  res  Lake,  bet  West
Water  and  Canal Dufhe,  .John,  carpenter.  ^Market,  south  of  AVashington Dady.  Mrs.  -Margaret,  laundress,  res  X.  AVater,  bet  X.  Clark  and  X.
Dearborn  [died  February  23.  1887,  aged  7G.
Diitfy,  Michael,  la'oorer,  Kinzie,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle DuftV,  Patrick,  laborer,  Kinzie,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died  Auo-ust  2G.  1853. DiiLian.  'I'liomas.  [died  January  3,  188G,  aged  72.
Dunham.  .Julius  f Christy  6z  D.)
D'mlap.  AVm..  clerk,  Tarleton  Jones'  lum!)eryard,  bds  City  Kcfectory i>unlop.  Hugli.  carpenter,  .Alarket.  south  of  Washington
[died,  unmanied,  February  3,  1873.  aged  G4-7-9. D'jun.  AVilliam.  res  Canal
Darand.  Charles,  attorney  at  law.  131  Lake,  res  same Durant.  James  T..  res  Clark  ,'    '
Durrell.  AVilliam.  tin  and  coppersmith.  Samuel  .J.  Surdam f>ntch  Settlement,  north  of  Chicago  ave  and  east  of  X.  Clark Dwiglit,  Alanson,  currier,  <4urnce  ik  Matteson
[died,  Clcv<-land.  O..  August  5,  1895.  aged  83-4-10. I>wyer.  Cornelius,  laborer.  .N'orth  Walter,  iMjt  Clark  and  Dearborn Dyer,  Charles  Volnev.  physician.  9.^  Lake,  res  47  State
[died  April  24,  l.s7s.  aged  09/.^ f'yer  6c  Chapin.  dry  goods  and  groceries,  103  Lake Dyer,  Thomas  CD.  'Sc  Chapin).  bds  City  Hotel
[15th  mayor,  died,  .Mid'tN'town,  Conn.,  June  G,  1S(;2,  aged  57.
\ }
If  i...{  .'>;{in.!  ;•:■
'     ■  ■  •      t
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.         -  .     .  |
Eaclius.  Virgil  II.,  tailor.  Jack  Cox,  bds  ]\ransion  House
[died  August  18,  1864,  aged  -l.;. Eagle  Tavern,  10  Dearborn.  E.  Vandreuser,  prop. Earhart,  C.,  tailor,  res  Washington,  bet  Wells  and  Franklin Eastman,  Zebiua,  editor  JFestern  Citizen,  l'J4  Lake,  res  Kandolpb.  bet LaSalle  and  AVells  [d..  MayvN'ood,  Cook  Co.,  111.,  June  14,  IS^;},  a.  (J7;^. Eaton,  li.  E..  clerk,  Xorton  v.\:  Tuckerman Ebert,  Georiiv  Francis,  land<ca]>e  Gardner,  Clark,  south  of  A'anlluren
[died  July         iyt>l.  ag^'d  r,;. Ebert.  John,  erecting  engineer,  prop.  Independence,  building  .;!t  toot of  Pine.  l»ds  Tremont,  [tirst  engineer  of  the  Galena  R.R.,  driving  the Pioneer — the  first  engine — and  its  first  uiaster-niechanic Eckhoff,  John,  laborer,  res  Jefferson,  bet  Washington  and  3Iadison
[died,  Cerro  Gordo.  la..  June  50,  1874,  aged  47. Eckhoft*.  Xicholas,  teamster,  res  X.  Canal,  bet  W.  Lake  and  Kandolph :  died,  Nile-.  Cook  Co.,  111..  February  17,  1873,  aged  '^'». Eddy  &  Co..  hardware,  iron,  and  stoves,  DO  Lake Eddy,  Devotion  C.  (E.  *fc  Co.),  res  ^[ichigau  ave  near  Lake Eddy,  Ira  Batton  (E.  &  Co.).  les  4o  Michigan  ave  [d.  Aug.  10,  T)l.  a,  n'». Edwards,  JZdwin.  grain  buyer.  l)ds  F.  ]M.  Edwards  [d.  Jan.  1, 18iM).  a.  7 1 . Edwards,  Francis  ^Nlvers.  carpenter,  W.  Adams,  bet  Canal  and  Clinton [died.  De.splaines,  111.,  May  13,  1893,  aged  7:. Edwards,  John,  carpenter.  Francis  AL  Edwards Edwards,  Thomas,  slioemaker,  Thomas  AVhitlock
Eells,  ,  bricklayer,  south  of  Madison,  east  of  Clark  _
Egan,  Wiley  ^l,  sailor,  schooner  CharloUe,  bds  City  Refectory Egan,  A\'m.  Bradshaw,  phvsician,  recorder,  etc.,  68  Clark,  res  Clark
[died  October  27,  1800,  aged  -v^. Elderkin.  St(  phen  W.,  bds  Chicago  Temperance  House Eldridge.  John  Woodworth,  phvsician.  res  Kandolph,  first  door  we-t
of  City  Hotel  '  [died  January  1,  1884,  aged  T"'.
Elliott.  Joseph,  tailor,  185  Lake,  res  same
Ellis,  James,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard     [died  March  4,  1884,  a.  T."i. Ellis,  Joel,  butcher,  Clark  Street  ^Market,  bds  Farmers'  Hotel
[died,  Jerterson,  Cook  Co,,  III..  Oct.  30,  18^6,  aged  G;'. Ellis,  Peter,  shoemaker,  William  David
Ellis,  Samuel,  farmer,  .south  of  Cottage  Crovc    [died  Oct.  9,  1803,  a,  — Ellis,  Stephen,  butcher,  res  ea.st  of  Clark,  north  of  Jackson Ellis,  William  (E.  ^  Fergu.s),  printer,  res  109  Kandolph
[died  .May  10,  1873,  aoed  0!. Ellis  &  Fergus,  book.  direct(jry,  and  Job  printers,  37  Clark,  3d  fioor EUithorj)",  Albert  Chapman,  wagon-makei-, Elston,  Daniel,  patent  press Jjrick  hiaker,  res  Xortli  J3ranch
[died  Sej)tember  13.  18or>,  aged  ^^■'• El)^,  Thomas,  book-keeper,  res  3Iichi_gan,  bet  Cass  and  Wolcott Emmonds.  J.  AV.,  carpenter.  Kobin.soii  Tripp Enos,  jr..  A\'iUiam  C.  Archil)ald  Clybourn
Espert,  Gecu-ge  C.  [•■l>utcher  George"],  butcher,  Archibald  C]yb.)nrn
[died  Januarv  2,  1880,  :ig<-d  T"-
i
i^^-J
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  53
Evaas,  Enoch  Webster,  attoi-ney  [died  JSopt.  2,  1879,  aged  G2.
Ji.ypress,  Chicago,  92  Lake.  \\\\\.  AY.  Braekett.  editor;  ["discontinued April  20,  1844;  continued  April  22  as  the  Chicago  Journal
Fairbanks,  Peter,  shipcarpcnter.  Lake  near  Franklin Falch.  Leonard,  soap  and  caudle  maker,  3[i<:'h.,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells
[died  October  31,  1889,  aged  81-lU. Falier,  v.,  Avatchniaker.  Dearborn,  near  Treuuint  House Falley,  R.  S.,  carpenter.  South  Canal,  od  Ward Farewell.  James,  cigar  maker.  A.  B.  Wheeler
Faris.  James,  sailor,  Xorth  Water,  bet  Franklin  and  X.  Branch  bridge Farmers'  Exchange,  s.-w.  cor  Lake  and  Wabash.  Peleg  A.  Barker,  prop Farnsworth.  George,  lumber  inerchant
Farrell,  Thom.as.  laborer,  3Iicliioan  ave     [died  June  IT.  1870.  aiied  67. Farwcll.  Chas.  Benjamin  [arrived  Jan.  10,  1844.  clerk,  J.  B.  F.  Russell Fearing.  George  B.,  captain  Jlaria  lliiHard.  bds  AYashington  Hall Felker.  Samuel  R.,  merchant  tailor.  143  Lake,  res  same
[died  Octol)er  1,  1879.  aged  72. Fellman.  J.  Francis,  chairmaker,  John  B.  AYeir,  res  Xortli  Water Fennerty.  James,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  100  Lake,  res  Dearborn Fennerty,  James,  res  Lake,  bet  State  and  Wabash  ave Fennerty,  John,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  100  Lake Fennerty,  Peter,  auctioneer,  h  Ikt  Lake  and  AYabash Fennimore,  Richard,  wheelwright,  X.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle Fenton.  AYilliam  (Perkins  ^  F.),  bds  Chicago  Temperance  House Fergus.  Roijert  (Ellis  ^  F.j.  printer,  res  179  State,  Lot  0,  Block  o.  Sec.
lo;  ^born,  Glasgow,  Scotland,  Aug.  4.  181.");  ai'rived  July  1,  1839. Ferguson,  Andrew,  drayman,  Luther  Xichols,  boards  same
[died,  Geneva  Lake.  Wis.,  3Iay  14,  1884,  aged  84. Ferguson,  AYilliara,  laborer.  Xorth  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott Ferns,  John  Porter,  sailor,  ivusli.  bet  Indiana  and  Ohio
[died  3Iarch  5,  1884.  aged  08-10-5. Feiras.  ,  laborer,  res  bet  X".  AYater  and  Kinzie.  near  Franklin
Ferris,  Arthur,  tailor,  res  Washington,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells Fetter.  John,  blacksmith.  Ithream  Taylor Field,  Francis,  teacher  pul)lic  school  1,  district  3 Field.  John  An<lerson.  carpenter,  res  cor  AY.  Aladison  and  Halstcd Field.  Jo-eph  B"nj..  car|)enter.  res  s.-w.  cor  AY.  ^ladison  and  Halste*!
[died  June  1,  1848,  aged  20. Fillmore,  V.  P.,  engjneei-.  res  cor  X.  Clark  and  Illinois Finey,  Uriah,  res  South  Water Finley.  Edward,  laborer,  res  4th  AYard Fijclibene.  Joseph,  merchant,  bds  Washinuton  Hall Fischer,  C"..  wood  turner,  Franklin  bet  Lake  and  Randolph,  ])ds  same Fi-cher,  Francis  Josej)h.  Catholic  ])riest.  res  AYabash  ave Fi-cher.  Peter  H.,  turner,  Franklin,  bet  Lake  and  Randolph Pish,  James,  carpenter  [died  August  18,  18>^1.
;  >
I  •;  i-
54  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.
Fish.  James  P.,  carpenter,  res.  Kinzie,  east  of  Rush
Fislj.  John  P..  teamster,  AVest  Lake,  bet  W.  Water  and  Canal
Fitch,  Patrick,  hrborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
Fittz,  Caleb  Draper,  upholsterer.  [died  Dec.  80.  18!)0.  agi'd  .S2.
Fitzgerakl.  Tiiomas,  hi  borer,  res  West  Water  near  Lake
Fitzgibbons,  John,  res  ^iichigan  ave
Fitzgibbons.  Patrick,  drayman,  res  40  South  Water    [d.       184.').  a.  4.").
Fitzsimmons,  James,  clerk,  recorder's  office,  bds  Dr.  William  B.  Egan
[died.  Wisconsin,
Fitzsimmons.  ^iichael,  drayman,  res  Adams,  west  of  Clark
Fitzsimmons.  John,  teamster,  res  ^Nlicliigan  ave  cor  VanBuren
Flaliaven.  John,  brickmakcr,  Wood  &  Ogden
Fleming.  AVilliam.  merchant  tailor,  n.-e.  cor  X.  Water  and  Dearborii
[died  1850.
Fletcher,  Archibald,  auctioneer.  Horatio  Buell  (
Fletcher.  George,  carpenter,  bds  New  York  House
Flint.  ]Mr8..  res  West  Adams,  bet  Clinton  and  Jefferson
Flood,  John,  teamster,  res  Wabash  ave
Flood,  Pet('i-  Findley.  r^ailor.  [died  January  7,  1888,  agerl  73,
Florida,  Hughes,  brickmaker.  A\'ood  &  Ogden
Fogal.  ^Michael,  butcher.  Absalom  Funk
FoUansbee.  Alanson,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  112  Lake,  res  l':)0  State [died.  31il\vaukee,  Wis..  April  L").  18()0,  aged  -u^.^.
Folhmsbee.  Charles,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  8S  Lake,  res  1B5  State
[died  June  14,  1887,  aged  70  ".j.
Foot.  Starr,  teamster.  180  Clark,  cor  Monroe      [died  June,  18(i2.  a.  02.
Foot,  David  P.,  blacksmith,  res  Wabash  ave
Foote.  Lucius  H^.  clerk.  Tuthill  King,  bds  same
Forbes.  John,  drayman,  res  State
Forbes.  William,  bds  (  hicago  Temperance  House
Ford,  Alexander,  blacksmith,  Solomon  Govvcy,  bds  AVells
Ford.  Ciiristoplier.  carpenter,  bds  Citv  Kefectorv,  17  Dearborn
Ford.  David  M..  ;  foundrynian.  d..  NhiK-ming.  Mich..  Jan.  21,  18t)La.r,r.
Ford.  Maitin  Miin-oii.  tanner  and  currier,  Gurnee  ^V'  .Matteson
[died  18:)7.
Fordliam,  Jared,  tanner  and  curriei-.  res  Itandolj)!!
F()rre>t.  Joseph  Kini^-  Cummins,  law  student.  Scanimon  i.^  Jud<i. "reader"  of  the  New  Jerusalem  Societv.  IhIs  City  Hotel [the  "Old  Tinier"  of  the  Da//^  Xars;  died  June  2J.  1890,  a.  7.-}  0-27.
Forre>t.  Philip  Pvdei-,  clerk
I  died.' Orange.  Lo<  Ancreles.  Cal..  March  24.  ISMM.  agi  d  02.
P^orrest.Tlios.  Lawn  iiee.  clerk.  H.Xorton  k  Co.,  bds  City  Eating  House
Fort  Dearboin.  at  junction  of  Michigan  ave  and  Jiiver  st,  vacated  i»y troops — Cos.  A  and  B.  ."ith  I'.-S.  Inl'ty.  Capt.  St.  Clair  Denny,  comdg —  Dec.  21>,  t8-}0;  now  occupied  by  government  employes  at  woi"k  on the  harbor
^^)ss  <fc  Brothcr>,  |)lanin:a'-mill,  Market  street,   b<'t  'Washington  an/! ^[adison.     On  the  Riv(.r.
Foss,  John  Peaslee.   F<jss  ^fc  Brothers"  planing-mill
•ji\  ll-J
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  55
Foss.  Ivol)ert  Harris.  Fo^s  e^^  Brothois*  planinu-mill
[died,  Dover,  X.JI.,  July  2>^,  1803,  ai^ed  70.
Foss  Sam"l  Titcoinl*,  Foss  6z  Bros."  planing-iuill  [d.^^Iar.  ,'^8. 187u,  a.  .">!).
Fo>s.  "William  Ilain,  Foss  vfc  Brothers*  plaiiinii-inill
[died,  Portsmouth.  X.II.,  September  — ,  1858.  aj^ed  50.
Foster,  A.  H.  (Jenniui^s  cV  F.).  bds  American  Tempcrancn  Iloii^e
Foster,  Edward.  lal)orer.  s.-e.  eor  Pine  and  Tllini)is
[died.  1458  Xorth  Clark  St..  Lake  View.  Fel^ruary  '^^8.  1888.  aged  80.
Foster.  George  Franklin  (F.  A:  Pobb).  bds  John  B.  ^Mitchell
[died  Anaiist  10,  18T7.  ai^ed  00.
Foster.  Dr.  John  IIer])ert.  capitalist,  207  Lake,  res  same
[died  3ray  18.  1874.  aoed  78.
Foster  S:  Robb.  ship  chandlers  and  sail  makers.  100  South  AVater
Foster,  ,  Frink.  Walker  i.\:  Co.,  bds  American  Temperance  House
Fournmer,  Bazil.  grocery.  Xorth  "Water,  bet  Dearljorn  and  Wolcott
Fox,  Alvin,  wagon  maker.  E.  Grans^cer,  res  Illinois.  l)et  Clark  and  LaSalle
Fox.  George,  laborer,  res  JelTerson.  bet  Washington  and  ]Madison
Foyce,  William,  sailor,  bds  Henry  Howard
Frank.  John,  cabinet  maker.  John  B.  Weir
Frank.  Henry,  mason,  res  W.  3Ionroe.  bet  Canal  and  Clinton
Frank.  A.,  house  painter,  Xathauiel  S.  Gushing,  bds  same
Franks.  Josepli  Wilson,  tailor.  21f>i,.2  Lake.  s.  e.  cor  Franklin
[died,  on  farm,  Centralia.  Xemaha  Co.  Kas..  ]\[ay  8.  1870,  aged  73.
Franks,  jr..  Joseph  Wilson,  [trinter.  Ellis  A:  Fergus,  bds  J.  W.  Franks
[now  at  Peoriti,  IlL
Frazier.  Alfred  B..  tailoi-,  res  l)et  Clark  and  State
Frazier,  Andrew,  tailor.  Elmer  Tyler,  bds  same
Free,  G.  W.,  draper  and  tailor.  13!>  Lake
Freeman.  Vincent  H..  brick  maker.  Xorth  Branch
Freer  vt  De\\'olf.  attorneys  at  lav.',  53  Clark
Freer,  Lemuel  Covell  F*aine  (F.  it  DeWolf ),  res  Monroe,  bet  Clark  and LaSalle  "  [died  April  14.  18!I2,  aged  7s.(;-20.
Freer,  Aliss  V.  C.,  teacher  public  school  2,  district  2.
Freestone,  Thomas.  lal)orer.  near  Chicago  ave.  5th  AV'ard
Frey,  Philip,  drug  clerk,  I^eroy  AL  Boyce,  ])ds  Daniel  B.  Heartt
Frink,  John  (F.,  Walker  S:  Co.),  stage  proprietor,  res  117  Randolph
[died  Sunday  |>.m.,  May  23.  1858,  aged  03.
Frink,  John  S.,  clerk,  bds  John  Fiink
Fririk,  Harvey  B.. clerk,  bds  John  Frink  [died,  Califoinia.  Jan.  'l^^.  1S50.
Frink,  AValker  6:  Co.,  stan-e  proprietors,  office  1)5  Lake,  s,-w.  cor  Dear- born, stables  and  repair-sho])S,  45-55  Wabash  ave
Frisbie.  Augu>tus  •        |dicd  3larch  7.  1890.  aged  78.
Frost,  George,  bds  Michigan  ave
Fulleger,  Samuel,  butcher.  Fulton  Alarket
Fuller.  Andrew  E.  clerk.  William  Lo<^k  S:  Co.,  bds  \\'illiam  Lock
Fuller,  Asa  (F.  A:  Squires;,  res  X.  AVater.  bet  Dearborn  and  A\'olcott
Fuller,  [Judge}  Henry,  res  Dearborn,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington
[died  June  22,  1870,  agvd  70.
Fuller,  Xelson  W.,  printer,  Ellis  A:  Fergus
56  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Fuller  ct  Squires,  coopers.  South  Branch,  west  side
Fu'lertou,  Alexander  Xathaniel.  attorney  at  hiw,  res  90  Dearborn
[died,  Chester,  \t,  Septeni])er  28,  1880,  aged  TO. Fultori.  Henry  L.,  carpenter  and  millwright,  res  State Fulton  Market,  s.-w.  C(^r  Lake  and  Dcarl)orn.  C.  P.  Albee,  prop. Funk.  Absalom,  butcher,  Fulton  ami  Boston  3[arkets,  res  Wells,  bet
"Washington  and  Randolph  [died  September  1,  1851,  aged  (>■>.
Furlong,  ^Michael,  bootmaker,  Solomon  Taylor,  res  Kaudolph,  bet
Franklin  and  Market Fussey.  John,  sawyer,  res  near  North  Branch  bridge,  oth  "\\'ard Gaffney.  Bernard,  leather  dresser,  Gurnee  ct  3Iatteson,  res  od  Ward,
bet  W.  Eandolph  antl  "Washington Ga^-e.  E.  D.,  daguerrotype  artist,  90  Lake Gage,  .Tared,  flour  dealer,  Jolm  Gage,  res  Madison,  bet  Clark  and  La-
Salle  [died  March  81,  1880,  aged  To.
Gage,  John,  prop,  steam  flour-mill.  South  Brand  1.  west  side,  res  cor
CoivaI  and  Second  [died,  Vineland,  X.J..  Dec.  29,  1890,  aged  yO.
Gale,  Abram,  butcher,  22  Clark,  bds  l(>o  Lake
[died,  Oak  Park,  111.,  Ai)ril  4.  1889,  aged  02. Gale.  3rrs.  Abram.  milliner,  etc.,  108  Lake,  res  same Gale.  >tephen  F.  S:  Co.  (A.  H.  Burleyy,  books  and  stationery,  100  Lake Gale.  Stephen  Francis  (S.  F.  Gale  S:  Co.),  108  Dearborn Gallaifher,  Francis,  laborer,  res  ]\Iadison,  w^est  of  Franklin Gallagher,  AVm.  (Hood  S:  G.),  res  X.  AVater,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn Galvin.  ^Michael,  sailor,  res  18.j  Washington Galvin,  Mrs.,  res  Washinglon,  bet  Franklin  and  ^Market Galvin.  AVilliam,  sailor,  res  AVells,  bet  Madison  and  ^lonroe Ganar,  Austin,  gardener,  res  Dutch  Settlement Garkin.  Henrv  [-Dutch  Henrv'"!,  laborer,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Cass  and
Rush  '    ^  '    ''  [died  July  14,  18T8,  aged  90.
Garrett,  Augustus  (G.  A:  Seaman),  bds  Sauganash  llotel,  mayor  (0th'.
president  of  Board  of  Health
[died,  Sherman  House,  Noveml)er  80,  1848,  aged  4T. Garrett  cV  Seaman,  merchants  and  insurance  at>-ents,  14T  South  A\';iter Garritv.  Patrick,  shoemaker,  X.  AVater,  bet  N.  Clark  and  Dearborn Gart,  Peter,  brewer,  Lill  A:  Diversev's,  bds  same
[died,  Bowmanville,  HI.,  March  80.  1892,  age.l  T-k Garvey.  Tim.,  brickmaker.  Wood  <S:  Ogden,  res  X.  Water,  near  Norrli
Branch  bridge Gates,  Ldwin  L.,  blacksmith,  Frink,  Walker  Sc  Co.,  res  Randolph.  Ix.  t
State  S:  Dearborn  [died
Gates,  John,  carpenter,  bds  City  Jiefectory,  IT  Dear])orn Gates.  Philetus  Woodworth  (Scoville  k  G.),  res  W.  Randol])h  nr  Canal
[died  December  1,  1888,  aged  Tl. Gates.  Ralph,  iron  founder,  ScovlRe  tSc  Gates Gaueh.  Jacob  P.,  brewer,  Indiana,  bet  Pine  and  Sand,  res  same
(died  September  9,  1898,  aged  (i^. Gauuler.  Morris,  cabinet  maker,  res  Dutch  Settlement Gavin,  Edward  W.,  carpenter,  res  Cass  near  Kinzie
■/   ;  ;.  --
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    J  844.  •      57
Gay,  John,  sailor,  res  South  Wtiter,  bet  State  and  "Wabash  ave Gebel,  Peter,  laborer,  re.^.  cor.  Cass  and  Pearson
[died  June  18.  1887,  nf^^A  7;U, Gekler,  Henry,  blacksmitli.  res  LaSalle,  bet  Lake  and  South  "Water George,  Thomas,  tin  and  copi3ersmith,  lOT  Lake Geronie,  Sanuiel.  sailor. Getzler,  Anton,  liats,  caps,  and  furs,  lol  Lake,  res  sarae,  county  assessor
and  treasurer  [died,  Wyandotte.  Kas..  A])rii  2,  1859,  a-cd  ."Jo.
Getzler,  Frederick,  clerk,  Bracken  Jc  Tuller,  1)ds  Saugauash  Hotel Gherkin.  Henry  [Dutch  Henry,  lirst  grave-digger  of  Chicago,  died
July,  1877,  aged  90. Gil)bs,  George  Augustin  [died  Deeem1>er  8,  18r55.  aged  •■)4.
Gilbert  S:  Co.,  Ashlev,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  South  AVater Gilbert,  Ashley  (A.  G.  ^t  Co.),  bds  City  Hotel  [died
Gilbert,  Edw'd"  A.,  med.  stud't,  Dr.  Dan'l  Brainard,  bds  Sam.  H.  Gilbert Gilbert,  Sam.  H.,  clerk.  Dver  A:  Chapin.  res  Mich.,  bet  Clark  and  Dearly.
[died  Deeeml)er  20,  1879,  a-ed  75. Gilbert,  Sherod,  drayman,  res  Ohio,  bet  Dearborn  and  W^olcott
[died  September  25,  18G8,  n^ed  78. Giles,  William,  gardener.  West  Lake,  4th  Ward
[died  l)efore  May  24.  1850. Gill.  Charles,  harness-maker.  l)ds  Ed.  Gill Gill,  Edmund,  tailor,  212  Indiana,  res  same  [Chicaao's  lirst  ice-man,
died.  liowmanville.  111.,  August  17,  1867,  aged  023^. Gill,  Henry  P.,  teamster,  bds  Edmund  Gill
Gillen,  Jacob,  tailor,  res  Dutch  Settlement  ,y .
Gillis,  Alexand'-r.  carpenter.  Alex.  Loyd,  res  251  Clark  /  ,  .
Gilniorc,  "William,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Branch  near  river Gilsou,  Hiram  L.  (Kent  S:  G.),  bds  City  Hotel
Gilson,  P.,  clerk,  Ihistol  6:  Porter,  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn Gilscm,  Stephen  If.,  lumberman.  George  AV.  Snow Gilson,  William,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Clansman,  .lohn.  butcher,  AW-stern  .Market,  cor  X.  AVater  and  Clark Trleason,  Alichaol.  cooper,  alley  bet  Dearborn  and  AVater Godard,  H.  !>.,  clerk,  lluel  Ambrose,  bds  same Goldan.  John,  stone  mason.  North  AVater.  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle Goodman,  Fred,  tailor,  res  alley  bet  LaSalle  and  AVells Goodman.  Leon;ird.  shoemaker,  Dan.  Tavlor,  res  alley  bet  LaSalle  ;rnd
AVells  ■  ,  .      ,  ^
Goodrich,  Crrant  (Spring  vfc  G.).  res  200  Illinois  near  Rush
[died  .Alarch  15,  1880,  agcl  771.C. Goodrich,  Timothy  AVat.son,  clerk,  T.  B.  Carter,  bds  Mrs.  Seth  J/lmson <'Oodrici,  AVillard"".  tinsmith,  AVilliam  AVheeler <|oodsell,  L.  B.,  dry  goods,  etc.,  21  Deajborn,  res  42  Randolph <Jood\vin,  Francis  \\.  planemaker.  res  VV"^  Lake,  bet  AVater  and  T'aual <'Or)ld,  Nathaniel  (G.  S:  Dodgej,  res  n.-e.  cor  X.  Dearborn  and  .Michigan
[died  February  0,  1887,  aged' 73. Goold  6c  Do'lge.  saloon,  South  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn <-'Oss.  John  (S.  W.  G.  tic  Co.),  Svlvcstcr  Marsh,  bds  City  Refectory
:2
58  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Goss,  Samuel  AV.  i^c  Co..  dry  uoods  aud  cfroceries,  98  Lake 'Goss,  Samuel  AA'.  (Sam.  AV.  G.  ».V  Co.).  bds  City  Refectory.  17  Dearborn Gould,  Ambrose  B..  sailor,  res  Indiana,  bet  Pine  aud  St.  Clair Goulet.  Gabriel,  boarding-house  aud  grocery.  Canada  Home,  X.  AVater Govro,  John,  cooper.  Xorth  AVater,  bet  AVolcott  and  Kinzie Gowey.  Solomou.  blacksmith,  res  State
[died.  Gardner,  111.,  February  :],  1893.  aged  8:3. Gratf.  Jacob,  farmer,  res  Kinzie.  bet  Cass  aud  Rush Graflf,  Peter,  carpenter,  res  3Ionroe.  bet  Clark  and  State
[died  March  5,  1884,  aged  (59 Graham.  Hugh,  teamster,  Xorth  AVater.  bet  Franklin  aud  AVells Graham.  A^'..  hostler,  AVestern  Hotel Granger.  Elihu.  iron  founder  (G.  A:  A'anOsdel),  res  North  AVater,  bet
LaSalle  and  AVells Granger  v.t  A'anOsdel.  iron  foundry,  N.  AVater,  bet  LaSalle  and  AVells Granni>,  Amos,  cai'penter.  Edim^  place
Grannis.  Samuel  .Johnson,  boot  and  shoemaker.  1503/2  I-'^ke,  bds  Amer- ican Temperance  House  [died  December  14,  18G4,  aged  79^4'. Grannis.  Samuel  AVillis.  hatter,  Luciau  P.  Sanger Graves,  Dexter,  livery  stable,  alley  46  State,  res  42  State
[died  April  29,  1845,  aged  55. Graves.  Henry,  livery  stable,  alley  40  State,  bds  Dexter  Graves Graves,  Lorin,  horse  dealer,  res  **  The  Cottage,"  8  miles  south  shore
[died  September  11,  185.2,  aged  89. Graves.  Peter,  butcher,  res  Cth  AVard Graves.  Sheldon,  woodenware,  at  H.  Norton  it  Co.,  l^ds  Tremont
[died  February  VS.  1895,  aged  81. Gray  &:  ]5utler.  livery  stable,  n.-e.  cor  Dearborn  and  Randolph Gray,  Chas.  McNeill,  grain-cradle  maker.  80  Dearborn,  res  82  Dearborn [12th  mayor,  died  October  17,  1885,  aged  78>|^. Gray.  Franklin  D.,  clerk,  Horace  Norton  it  Co..  bds  Ethan  AValter Gray.  George  Morris,  with  Chas.  31.  Grav.  bds  82  Dearborn,  [a  resident of  Milwaukee  from  Se})t..  1840.  to  Sr-pt..  1840  [d.  June  1. 1895,  a.  77. Grav,  John  (G.  S:  Butlerj,  res  80  Randolph
[died.  Grayland.  III..  July  0,  1889.  aged  78-7-27. Gray,  John  L..  grocer,  n.-e.  cor  N.  AVater  and  N.  Clark
[died  December  28.  185G. Gray,  Jos.  Henry,  groceries  A:  provisions,  88  S.  AVater,  bds  E.  Alanierre Gray,  AVilliaui  B.  H..  clerk.  Joseph  H.  Grav,  bds  Columbian  House
[died  August  18,  18>>5,  agc-.l  04)^. Gregg.  David  R.  carpenter.  N.  AVater,  bet  AN'olcott  and  Kinzie Gregory.  E<l\vard  M..  prop.  AVestern  Hotel.  AV.  Randolph,  s.e.cor  Canal Gregory.  AVilliani  F..  printer.  ])ds  Western  Hotel Green.  Mark  T.,  clerk,  Stev«ns  c^: -Carpenter,  bds  Airs.  Cireen Green,  Airs.  Alargarct,  boarding-house,  n.-e.  cor  Clark  and  AVashington Green,  Russell,  clerk,  John  AI.  Underwood
(died.  Geneva  Lake.  Wis..  Alay  15,  1880,  aged  71^/. Green,  AVilliani,  clerk.  Charlfs  Buhl,  bds  aAIrs.  Green Greenwood,  John,  teamster,  William  Lill,  res  284  Kinzie,  cast  of  Rusli
■i;  /'   if  no /I    -'.»'»  ,•  i
;/  t
m;   i*Vr  :'l«f,.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  _  59
iTreeuwood,  Theopliilus,  clerk.  James  E.  Bishop,  res  Ontario,  bet
Wolcott  and  Dearborn Oner,  Samuel,  carpenter,  res  Xortli  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Franklin,
alderman  -Irli  ward Oreuel.  Geo.,  blacksmith.  W.  X.  Humphrey    [died  before  Feb.  20,  18.")(). Grey.  Charles,  lal^orer,  2d  "Ward
Gridley.  George  "W.,  auction  and  commission,  85  Lake Griffin,  Charles,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard Griffin  vS:  A'incent.  brokers.  South  "Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  State Griswold.  Charles  E..  clerk,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard,  bds  Dan.  S.  Griswold Grisvvold.  Daniel  S.,  attorney,  res  240  Kinzie,  near  Wolcott Griswold,  David  Dunham,  writer,  bds  Daniel  S.  Griswold Griswold,  Henry  A.,  clerk,  Augustus  Garrett,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel <Trose.  Jacob,  teamster,  alley  bet  W.  Washington  and  \Y.  Madison  and
JerTerson  and  Clinton Grose.  John,  miller,  John  Gage,  res  Jackson,  2d  Ward C4ross,  ^richael,  tanner  [died  A])ril  (J,  1882,  aged  G9^.
Gross.  Sarah,  res  Madison Gruel.  George,  blacksmith.  LaSaile,  res  Randolph,  bet  LaSalle  and
Wells  [died  before  February  11,  1851.
Guenther,  Heinrich  Christin  Diederich,  sailor,  res  cor  3Hchigan  and
Cass  [died  March  17.  1884,  aged  84-11-10.
Guild.  Albert  H.,  (went  to  St.  Louis  in  1840)
Gumperston,  John,  waiter.  City  Hotel
Gurley,  Jason,  hatter.  Lorenzo  P.  Sanger      [died  April  19,  1865,  a.  58. CTurnee,  Walter  Smith  (G.  &  Matteson),  city  treas'r,  res  47-9  Dearborn
11th  mayor Ourn*  e  ik>  ^latteson,  groceries,  hardware,  and  leather,  110  Lake
Haas,  Louis,  blacksmith,  John  B.  Busch        [died  July  23,  1888,  a.  07.
Haa-.  William,  brewer,  sold  out  to  Lill  «fc  Diversey  and  went  to  Texas
[died,  Boonville,  3[o.,  Septeml>er  21,  1802,  aged  — .
Hadduck.  Beniamin  F.  (Tillotson,  Humphrev  Sc  Co.),  res  ^lichigan  ave,
south  of  Lake  [died  December  23,  1871,  ;iged  02.
Hadduck,  Edward  Hiram,  capitalist,  res  70  ^Michigan  ave
[died  :May  30,  1881,  aged  70. Hadley,  ]Mrs.  T.  G.  (Beedi,  dress  and  cloak  maker,  1471^^  Lake Hadley,  [Maj.l  Elijah  \V..  dentist.  [died  March  4,  18(i5,  a<i:ed  51.
Hadley,  Timothv  Gibson  (Howard  <k  H.),  res  alley  bet  X.  Dearborn  and
^\'olcott Ilaeni,  Henry,  tailor,  HettinLrer  <S:  Peterman
Haliy,  Michael,  carpenter,  bds  H,  Cunningham  [d.  A])r.  20, 1884,  a.  70. Hageman,  ChristO})ii,  grocer,  Xorth  "Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn HaL^eman,  Christo|)h,  {physician,  X.  Water,  bet  Dearb.  and  Wolcott Hagernan,  Fred.  Ciiarh-s,  barljer.  steamer  j\/'i>lisoii,  bds  C.  Hageman
•died,  Wiiitield.  Dui'age  Co.,.  111.,  Septem!>ei-  3,  1809,  aged  51-0-7. Hageman,  Joseph,  tinsmith,  William  Blair
Vc
6o  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1S43.
Haggard.  Samuel  B.,  carpenter,  Scoville  tt  Gate^:.  ■ "     ■
Halin.  Adam,  teamster,  res  Dutch  Settlement
Haight,  Egbert  Hand,  carpenter.  Cruver  S:  Senser,  bds  ]\[rs.  TTaiglir
rdied,  Elgin.  111.,  August  16.  18Ts,  aged  57. Haigbt,  Mrs.  Eliza,  boarding-house,  Clark,  south  of  Randolph
[died  April  7.  187(5.  aged  80. Haight,  Isaac,  tanner.  Gurnee  &  ^latteson Haines,  John  Charles  (Clark,  H.  &:  Co.).  bds  Sauganash  Hotel
riTth  mayor,  died.  Waukegan.  HI..  July  4,  189<).  aged  78. Hale.  Benjamin  F.,  botanic  physician,  I80  Lake,  res  Wells,  east  side,
first  door  south  of  Lake Hall,  Edward,  saddler  and  haraess  maker,  Silas  B.  Cobb Hall,  Elbridge  Gerrv,  clerk,  Samuel  B.  AValker,  res  same
[died  A])ril  18, 1877,  aged  02, Hall,  J.  B..  irrocer.  X.  AVater.  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn Hall,  Philip"  A.,  merchant.  [died  June  9,  1892.  aged  74.
Hall,  William  Alosley,  lumber  merchant,  bds  City  Hotel
[died.  Xew-York  City.  Xov.  8,  1894,  aued  83:  the  origina':«n'  of the  Chicago  Biver-and-Harbor  Convention.  July  5-7.  1847. Hallam.  Bev.  Isaac  Williams,  rector  St.  James  Parish,  res.  38  Cass. Hal  lock,  Isaac  P..  res  West  Lake
Hamilton.  Polemus  Draper,  carpenter,  res  120  Clark,  bet  Madis-^i  and
Washington        died.  Fort  AVorth.  Tex..  Alarch  3,  1891.  aged  7:-9-3. Hamilton,  Richard  Jones  (H.  <t  Chamberlin).  res  264  ]\[ichioan
rdied  December  26,  1860,7iged  OII4. Hamilton,  Robert  Peri-y  (H.  Sz  AVhite).  bds  Thomas  E.  Hamilton
[died.  Saratoga.  X.Y..  October  T).  1894.  aged  7~). Hamilton,  Thomas,  bds  AVashincrton  Hall IhuTiilton,  Thomas  E..  carpenter,  res  104  Aladison Hamilton,  ^V.  J.,  drug  clerk.  Sidney  Sawyer,  bds  C'harles  H.  Chapman Hamilton  t^-  Chamberlin.  attorneys  at  law.  .■)7  Clark Hamilton  S:  AVhite.  dry  goods  and  groceries.  139  Lake        < Hamlin.  E.  II.,  Baptist  clergyman,  res  LaSalle.  bet  AYashington  S:  ^Nlad. Hanchett,  John  L..  surveyor^  [died  July  6,  1887,  aged  SO.
Hanks,  J.  Demming,  drug  clerk.  Sidney  Sawyer Hanlou.  Edward,  blacksmith.  Frink.  AYalker  ,S:  Co..  res  North  YCater.
l>et  X.  Clark  and  LaSalle  [died  July  24.  1891.  aged  74.
Hannahs,  James  Alonroe.  moulder,  Stow's  Foundry,  bds  AYestern  Hotel Hanson.  Abraham.  Alethodist  clergyman,  res  Clark,  bet  AYa.sliington
and  Aladison Hanson.  Josepdi  L.,  teamster,  res  Alonroe,  bet  State  and  Clark Hanson,  Knus.  laborer,  res  near  Xorth  Branch  bridge Harbarn.  Alathias,  shoemaker,  res  Dutch  Settlemeiit Harding,  Charles,  captaio  schooncu  Ge7i.  Thornton,  bds  Tremont
House  [died  July  15,  1883,  aL-^ed  (;7.
Harrnan,  William,  blacksmith,  X'orth  AYater  near  Wolcott,  res  same
[.lied,  The  Dalles.  Or( gon.  Alay  15.  1890.  a-e.l  >^4. Harmon,  Charles  Loomis.  dry  goods  and  liroceries.  145  South  Water.
s.-w.  cor  Clark,  res  Dearborn,  bet  Washington  and  Aladison
[died  Xovember  2,  1868,  aged  5!t-4.
ti;ii  1  .H  ^-^^
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  6 1
Harmon,  Edwiii  Rutliven.  elk.  Elisha  S.  i.t  Julius  Wadsvfortb,  bds  same [died,  Roo-crs  Park.  111.,  3Iny  .20.  1800.  aged  77-S. Harmon,  Eliiah  Dcwev.  physician,  bds  C.  L.  Harmon
[died  January  3.  1869,  aged  80V;. Harmon.  Isaac  Xewton,  -uitli  C.  L.  Harmon    [died  Xov.  8,  1891,  a..  — . Harmon.  Justus  (Wooster  6c  H.),  bds  Jolm  Gray Harper,  AVilliam.  carpenter,  res  ?>Iadison Harrington,  Daniel,  saloon.  10  Dearborn,  near  South  Water Harrington,  -James,  res  X.  Clark,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie Harrington.  Joseph,  Unitarian  clergyman,  res  3[ichigan.  u.-w.  cor  X.
Dearborn     [died.  SanFruncisco,  Cab,  Xovcmber  3.  1^52,  aged  SO?-'. Harris,  Jacob,  carpenter,  res  First,  bet  Clark  and  State
[died  September  11,  18T7.  aged  (50. Harrison,  Henry,  grocer,  Soutli  Water,  east  of  Dearborn,  res  same Harrison,  Hiram  H..  drover,  res  South  Water Harrison.  Piobert.  laborer.  John  Gage,  res  "West  Jackson,  Sd  Ward Harroun,  O.  A.,  saddler.  Doliver  Walker.  T9  Lake Hart,  George  W..  commission  merchant.  South  Water,  res  Wabash  ave Hart.  Lewis,  laborer,  res  alley  xiear  Lake  and  Franklin Harvey,  Edward,  laborer,  X.  Clark,  bet  Xorth  Water  and  Kinzie Haslett,  I^eter.  laborer,  res  West  Water,  bet  Randolph  and  Lake Haslett,  AN'illiam,  shoemaker,  res  West  Water Haslett,  ,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
Ha>tie.  Thomas,  shoemaker  {died  July  14,  1^70,  aged  Oo.
Hastinii'S.  Hiram,  drover,  res  Washini^'-ton.  bet  LaSalle  and  AVells
[died.  Riverside,  III.,  July  U,  1880.  aged  75 1^ - Hastings.  Thos.,  shoemaker,  Dan.  Taylor,  res  W.  Madison,  w\  of  Clinton Hastings,  AVilliam.  nurseiy.  Aixhcr  ave.  south  of  2.")th Hatch.  David,  hardware,  etc..  08  Lake,  res  Adams  nr  Dearborn  [d.,  near Parksvilte.  on  Missouri  Pdver,  en  route  to  Cal..  before  May  7,  I80O, Hatch,  Heman  (H.  A:  Shurr),  res  South  "Water  near  Dearborn
[died  September  8.  1858,  aged  5'.». Hatch  6z  Shurr.  saloon. Hatfield,  Isaac  P.,  collecting  agent,  bds  ]\[rs.  Green
[died  :\Larch  10,  1879.  aged  7;ji4^ Hathaw\ay,  L.  W.,  clerk,  Samuel  B.  Collins  S:  Co.,  res  AV'abash  ave Hathaway,  IVFrs..  dressmaker.  175  Luke
Hawkins,  William,  clerk.  Charles  G.  Wicker,  bds  David  Jay Hawdey,  John  S.,  clerk.  Sherman  Si  Pitkin,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel Hayden,  Chamberlaine.  bds  American  Temperance  House Hayden.  James,  diayman.  84  AVabash  ave     [died Haves,  Benjamin  F.,  family  grocer,  170  Lake,  res  Clark
[died  .Alarch  7,  1858. Hayward,  Alvin.  fanuing-mill  maker.  Lake,  near  Sauganash  Hotel Heacock,  Pvouben  li.,  medical  student,  bds  Russel  E.  Heacock Heacock,  Russel  Easton  ,(Jld  Shallow-Cut,  Chicago's  tirst  attorney  at
law),  res  129  Adams         [died,  Summit,  III.,  June  20,  1849,  aged"  7U. Heacock.  Ru.ssel  E.,  jr..  clerk,  Charles  AValker  ik  Co.,  bds  Russel  E.
Heacock Heacock,  Pi.  E.,  mason,  Alson  S.  Sherman
62  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
Heaf(H-k,  Wm.  Osl>nni.  ivs  l\.  E.  Hcucock       [died  Dec.  7,  1881.  a.  02. llcald.  Alexander  Hamilton,  masoji.  1)ds  Daniel  Heald,  ir.
[died.  Oak  Park.  Cook  Co.,  Ilk,  Xovember  11,  188."),  aged  :2}.<. Ileald.  jr.,  Daniel,  mason.  Jackson,  bet  Clark  and  Pacitic  ave
[died.  Trenton,  N.J.,  July  1:3.  1874.  a.o-ed  06  9-2S. Heald,  Horatio  Xelson,  bds  Daniel  Heald,  jr.  ;  d.  Nov.  23,  188;].  a.  74i<. Heartt,  Dan"l  Brewster  i  Pop-Cornj.  constable,  boarding  house,  82  Yv'ells
[died  July  81.  -iSij^^.  aged  81. Heartt,  Robert,  teamster.  ])ds  D.  B.  Heartt  [d.  June  10,  1888.-a.  722^. Henderson,  Rev.  Ak'uer  '\ Veils,  principal  Chicauo  Female  Seminary,
bds  Mrs.  Green  [died  Oeto])er  18,  1872,  aged  60-3-10.
Hennings,  Thomas,  la1>orer,  res  W.  Randolph.  Hd  Ward Henry,  Hugh  K.,  police  constable  and  joiner,  res  N.  Water  nr  Dearborn Henson,  Oliver  Cromwell,  (cokd)  phrenologist,  barber,  etc.,  183  Lake, res  same  [died.  Xew  Orleans.  La.,  December  10,  1877.
Hequenbourg.  G  W..  clerk,  Benjamin  F,  Sherman,  res  same Herrick,  Elijah  AVard,  contractor,  bds  31rs.  Haight
[died  October  12,  1800,  aged  53^^. Herrick.  Ira  X..  contractor,    [d..  Park  Manor,  HI.,  Jan.  17,  1890,  a.  08. Hervey,  [Sir]  James,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  110  S.  Water,  res  Indiana, bet  Cass  and  Rush  [died  1845,  aged  30.
Hervey,  Robert,  currier,  Gurnee  ct  Matteson Hessey,  AMUiam,  ready-made  clothing,  250  Randolpli Hettinger  (John)  &  Peterman,  tailors,  South  Water  near  Clark
[died  July  7,  1802,  aged  81. Hibbard.  Piev.  John  RandoljJi.  occasional  preacher  in  the  Xew  Jeru- salem Chui'ch.  resides  at  Canton.  111.
ri>ecamf  a  resident  Jan.  1.  1850:  died  June  20,  1S04,  aged  84-11-3. Hickey,  Patrick,  drayman,  bds  Charles  McDonnell Hickox,  Charles  D.,  teamster,  res  l^vandolph  near  3Iarket Hickox,  Philander,  clerk.  S.  S.  Robinson,  bds  same Hig!4-ins,  F]dward,  milk  dealer.  Canal,  3d  Ward  ,-  '>''       ■
Higains,  Floyd,  milk  dealer.  Canal,  3d  AVard
Higgins,  John,  tanner,  Gurnee  S:  ^[atteson,  res  X.  Water  near  Franklin Hig^iinson.  George  ]\I.  (Tuckerman  tt  Co.).  Ixls  American  Temperance
House High,  Jr.,  John  (U.  H  Magie  Sz  Co.),  13  Dearborn  place
[killed  by  falh'ng  wall  at  tire  at  110  Lake.  Oct.  10,  1857,  aged  50. Higley,  George,  house  of  entertainment.  South  Water  near  LaSalle Hildebrtind,  AVilliam,  glove  and  mitten  maker,  221  J^ake,  res  .same
[suicided,  Xew-York  City,  X"ov.  4,  1870,  aged  70. Hill,  J.  W.,  tinsmith,  Bowen  <S:  Cole,  bds  .Mansion  House Hill,  kewis  P.  (.Marshall  6c  H.),  res  Xew  York  House inn,  William,  jeweler.  Smith  J.  Sltf;rw^ood,  bds  Daniel  B.  Heartt Hilliard,  Lauria  Palmer  (Charles  Walker  c<c  Co.),  bds  Mrs.  J.  K.  Boyer 1  killed  bv  cars.  Xovember  2,  1805,  aged  81. Iliii-,  WiUirtm  H.,  clerk,  Horace-Xorton  >k  Co.,  bds  Eli  S.  Prescott Ilind<-«},  li.  F.,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  Dennison  Horton Hinkley,  Samuel  Taylor,  fireman,  U.-S.  dredge
[died  Sei>tember  5.  1804,  aged  70-2-13.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  6^
Hitchcock,  EpLraim,  farmer,  res  State  [died  l<s-i!)-
Hitchcock,  Luke.  3Ietliodist  clergyman,  res  Parsonage,  115. Clark HixoD,  Jeremiali,  captain  schooner  Martin   VanBuren,  res  AV.  \Vntet,
bet  Canal  and  Clinton Hoard,  Louis  do  Yillicrs,  cleputy-elerk.  Cix^k-Coiinty  Court
[died,  Ogdenslmrg,  X.Y.,  March  4.  is9o\  aged  (;8-b-25. Hoard,  Samuel,  clerk.  Circuit  Court,  olhce,  G8  Clark,  res  West  Adams,
bet  Canal  and  Clinton  [died  November  25,  1881,  aged  81 1<.
Hobbie,  Albert  G.,  dry  goods,  groceries,  and  hardware,  142  Clark,  res
Wabash  ave.  bet  Randolpli  and  \Yashington Hobbs,  James,  sailor,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Cass  and  Rush Hobson.  Kobert  31.,  printer,  IJxprcss  office,  bds  City  Refectory Hodge,  Job,  laborer,  res  Xorth  A\'ater  near  Franklin Hodgson,  Charles  Hvatt,  tinsmith,  bds  John  H.  Hodgson
[died  OctoI)er"5,  186(3,  aged  40. Hodgson.  Henry  Hyatt.  l)ds  John  H.  Hodgson,   [now  at  Detroit.  ]\[ieh. Hodgson,  John  Hyatt,  merchant  tailor,  (31  Clark,  res  same   [died  1854. Hoff.  3Iathias,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Hoifman,  Francis  A..  l)Ookbinder. Hoffman,  Michael,  laborer,  res  William  L.  AYliitiug
[died  September  5,  1891,  aged  78-8. Hogan,  Charles  L.  P.,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  252  Lake,  res  Franklin
near  Lake  [died,  Morris,  HI.,  about  1855.
Hogan,  John  Stephen  Coates.  ex  postmaster,  bds  Charles  L.  P.  Hogan [died,  Boonville,  Mo.,  Deeeml)er  2,  18(38,  aged  (j'd~:^. Hogan.  ^Michael,  res  Michigan  ave
Ho:,'-an,  Thomas,  laborer,  res  North  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie Hoisingtou,  Jasper  A.,  bookbinder.  o5  Clark,  bds  Ariel  Bowman
[died,  Oakland.  Cal.,  :March  25.  1805,  aged  94. Hoisington,  Jasper  A.  M.,  book])inder,  Jasj^er  A.  Hoisington,  l)ds  same,
[now  at  Denvei-.  Col. Holbrooke,  John,  cooper,  Xorth  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  AYolcott Holden.  Albon  Hatch,  clerk,  Charles  X"".  llolden  ^  Co.
[died  May  21.  1893,  aged  71-8. Holden  cV  Co.,  (has.  X".,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  143  S.AYater,  cor  Clark Holden,  Chas.  Xewton  (C.  X".  H.  c'c  Co.),  res  AYashington,  bet  Clark  and
Dearborn  [died  Septemljer  2I>,  1887,  aged  71 1^.
Holden,  Charles  Cotesworth  T^incknev,  clerk,  Charles  Sweet Holden.  AYilliam  P.  (Chas.  X.  Holden  it  Co.),  bds  Chas.  N.  Holden Holland,  Carlton  (Lawrence  ct  H.),  bds  3Irs.  Green Holmes,  C.  E.,  wagon  maker,  John  Burgess Holmes,  Isaac,  machinist,  J.  B.  Xickerson
[died  Se]>tember  14.  1874,  aged  52. Holm^'S.  John  D..  clerk,  res  Pvandolplu.bet  A\'ells  and  Franklin Holiiies.  .Afrs.,  res  LaSalle,  bet  AYashington  and  ]\Iadison Holt,  Mrs,  Elizabeth,  widow  of  i^cter,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Cass  and  liush Hoit,  Thomas,  carpenter,  bds  :vrrs.  E.  Holt     [dic^l  1881,  aged  (30.
Honeywell,  David,  teamster,  AYest  AYater,  bet  Canal  and  Clinton Hood,  Andrew,  butcher,  Fulton  3Iarket
64  '  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
Hood.  David  (H.  ^t  Gallaq-lier),  res  allev  bet  AVolcott  and  Dearborn
[died.  Gro>s  Point,  Cook  Co.,  111.,  April  10,  1S33,  age.l  42. Hood  Jc  Ga.llagher,  butchers,  Buffalo  ^Market,  X.  Water,  n.-e.  cor  Wolcott Hooker.  James  Louis,  clerk,
fdied,  Boston,  INIass.,  Septeml)er  20,  1803.  aged  72-7-5. Hooker,  -Jolm  AV.,  drv  goods  and  o-rocerics,  1-j2  Lake,  res  S4  Dearborn
[died  May  14,  18GG,  aged  04. Hoover,  John,  batcher,  res  AVolcott.  bet  Xortli  Water  and  Kinzie Hopper,  George,  mechanic.  1st  Ward Horn,  Jolm,  res  1st  AVard Horner,  Henrv.  grocers,  etc.,  cor.  AVest  Randolph  and  Canal
[died  February  12.  1878,  aged  01. Hortley.  Samuel,  farmer,  res  AA'est  AYater.  bet  Canal  and  Clinton Horton,  I>ernard,  bartender,  bds  Airs.  John  K.  Boyer Horton.  Deunison,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  15  Dearborn,  res  AYells. bet  Lake  and  Randolph  [died  January  4,  1880,  aged  70.
Hotchkiss,  Orrin,  tinsmith.  William  AYheeler  it  Co..  res  AYashington
[moved  to  Ottawa.  111. Houfc,  Thomas,  teamster,  AA'm.  Lill,  bds  .John  Greenwood
[died  before  July  10,  1851. Houfe,  A^'illiam.  plasterer,  res  5th  AYard.  210  Chicau'o  ave
[died  ^         1849.  aged  — .
Hough,  Oramel  Smith,  laborer,  bds  Pat.  Kelsey   [d.  Dec.  7, 1876.  a.  53.L Hough,  PiOselle  Alarvin.  laborer,  bds  Pat.  Kelsey  [d.  Alar.  8,  18!)2,  a. — . Houghton,  David,  slioeraaker,  Dan.  Taylor Hovev,  Samuel  S.  (Clvbourn  vt  IL),  res  X.  Clark,  bet  111.  and  Indiana
[died  Alarcli  2,  1872.  agc.l  70. Howard.  Henry,  grocer.  Dearborn,  bet  South  AYater  and  Lake Howard,  John  At.,  druggist.  Dr.  John  Brinkerholf,  143  Lake Hovv'ard.  AYilliam,  shingle  maker,  bds  David  Honeywell Hov.-ard,AYm.  II.  (IL  S:  lladley),  res  AY. AYashington.  bet  Canal  Jc  Clinton Howard.  A\'illiam  H.,  wagon  maker Howard  cl'  lladley,  livery  stable.  Lake Howe,  C  harles  F.,  clerk,  bds  Frederick  A.  Howe
Howe,  Francis,  book-kce])er.  Dyer  ik  Chapin    [d.  Aug.  23.  1850.  a.  40. Howe.  Fred'k  Augu>tu-.  justice  of  the  peace,  22  Dearborn,  res  AYasli- ington,  s.-w.  cor  Dcarl)()rn     [d.,  Englewood,  111..  Oct.  27.  1870,  a.  75. Howe.  Fred.  A.,  jr.,  clerk,  bds  Frederick  A.  Howe Howe.  Isaac,  bricklayer,  res  Clark  [<lied  A])ril  5.  1870,  aged  7!).
Howe.  Jaiiics  L.,  City  bakery,  285  Kinzie  near  liush
[died  February  27,  b^03,  agcl  4.'^. Howe,  Samuel,  bricklayer,  res  Clark- Howe,  Samuel,  clerk,  IL  II  Alagie  iS:  Co.,  res  State,  bet.  Aladison  ami
AYashington
Hoync.  Philip  Augu^tu^-.  clerk,  at  Gahnj.    [d.  Nov.  .3.  1804,  a.  08-11-13.
Hoyne.  Thomas,  attorney  and  counsellor  at  law,  218  Lake  [23d  rn.iyor
[killed,  ndlroad  accident  near  Carlyon,  X.Y..  July  27,  18^3,  a^cd  *'>'-'f^y-
liubbard,  Ahira,  book-keeper,  Gurdon  S,  Hubbard,  res  Indiana,  bet
Ca.ss  and  Rush  [died  August  15,  1840,  aged  70.
CPIICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.  65
llulibard,  Gurdou  Saltonstall.  forwarding  and  commission,  South
^A'ater,  near  Clark,  res  300  Indiana,  near  Kasli
[died  Se])tember  14.  1886.  as^ed  84. }Iabbard,  Henry  George,  clerk,  Circuit  Court,  res  I.aSalle,  bet  AVasb-
ington  and  ^vfadison  [died,  Sandusky,  O.,  Aug  28,  185.2.  aged  43}^. Hubbard.  Closes,  drv  goods  and  groceries.  South  Water  near  Dearborn Hughs.  AVilliam  F..  res  Robert  jr^Voodworth
Hugunin.  James  Robert,  bike-captain         [died  Jan.  19,  1892.  aged  74. ilugunin,  Leonard  Chirk,  bds  United  States  Hotel
[died  Xovenilier  G,  1883,  aged  791^. Humphrey.  James  Oscar,  wacrou  maker,  182  Randolph
[died  Juno  14.  1893,  aged  b3. Humphrey,  AVm.  H..  ^vagon  maker,  Raudolj)!!,  res  AVells,  bet  Randoi^^h
and  AVashiiigton Humphreys,  David  (H.  >k  AVinslow).  bds  City  Hotel Humphreys  vi'  AVinslow,  forwarding  and  commission,  130-30  S.  Water Hunt,  3Irs.,  res  AVcst  AVater,  bet  Raudol})!!  and  Lake Hunter.  T.  F..  sailor. Huntington,  Alonzo,  attorney  at  law,  notary,  98  Lake,  bds  Dr.  0.  Y.
Dyer  -  [died  November  17,  1881,  aged  76.
Huribert,  Eri  Baker,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  109  S.  AVater,  res  73  State
[died  February  3,  1852.  aged  — . Husted,  Harrison  Hoyt.  ready-made  clothing,  97i^  Lake,  bds  Fiancis
C.  Sherman  '  '  [died  August  29,  1890,  aged  77.
Hvde,  Z.  ^y.,  mason,  res  Illinois,  bet  Pine  and  St.  Clair
Illinois  Exclianue.  n.-w.  cor  Lake  and  AYells,  John  B;Ues.  jr..  pr(^p. Ingallc,  AVilliam  A.,  sailor,  res  Xorth  AVater,  bet  AVolcott  and  Kinzie Ir.telligence  office.  3s  Clark,  James  AV.  Xorris Irvin.  George,  shoemaker,  John  B.  ^Mitchell
Irvin  6c  Co.,  J.  B.,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  Dearborn,  bet  South  AVater and  Lake
Jiickson,  Carding,  police  constable,  res  State
Jackson,  Gideon  ]\Lithew,  prop.  Southern  Hotel,  State  n.-w.  cor  12th
[died  January  23,  1850.  ■A<^(-d  34. 'Jackson  ILdl.  45  LaSalle.  erected  1847.  ofiice  of  Chicago  Democrat] J>ick=-on.  John  J.,  sailor,  res  Indiana,  bet  Pine  and  St.  Clair Jackson,  John  AVm.,  teamster,  res  ^Morgan,  bet  Aladison  and  ^Monroe
[died  March  8,  1892,  aged  82-5-13. •Jatkson,  Samuel  Thomas,  overseer  Clricago  harbor,  res  Fort  Dearborn
[died  June  17.  1849,  aged  49-0-5. Jackson,  Samuel  E/ra,  bds  Sanuiel  Jackson
[died.  Bowmanville,  111.,  Man  h  18.  1870,  aged  52-0-25. J.ick-,on,  AV'illiam,  bds  Carding  Jackson
?0
i:
uyii  ihf
66  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
Jacobus,  Augustus  Larue  (]Manaliatii  it  J.),  res  lOo  ^Micliigan  ave.  near Madison  [died  July  54,  l.SoO.  ;i,m  <l  a:.\
Jacobus,  D.  L.  vt  A.  L.,  looking-glasses.  10  Clark
Jacobus,  David  Lawrence  (D.  L.  <k  A.  L.  J.),  res  111)  LaSalle
[died  October  l;3,  1884,  aged  (i8i^,
Jagger.  Oliver,  painter.  Xath.  S.  Cushing,  res  Clark,  4  Morrison'.-,  li'uv
Jail  (County),  ->.-e.  cor  Randolph  and  LaSalle,  AVm.  Perrior.  jailei-
James,  Thos.  Christmas,  cal)inet  maker,  res  cor  .AEather  and  Clinton  sts
[died  August  20.  1805,  jiiic.l  ru.
Jay.  David,  ladies'  boot  and  shoemaker,  Clark  near  Lake
Jeffrey,  .  carpenter,  res  Clinton,  bet  ^Vashington  and  ^^ladison
Jettrey.  George  (J.  A:  Bentley),  shoeing  smith  and  farrier
Jeffrey  So  Bently,  shoeing  smiths  and  horse  farriers,  "West  Water,  bet United  States  Hotel  and  John  ^I.  Underwood's  lumber  yard
Jeffries.  George,  warehouseman,  res  Indiana,  bet  Cass  and  I^ush
Jefts,  Amasa,  water  borer,  bds  Alichael  McDonald
Jellerson,  Oliver,  blacksmith,  res  IAS  Illinois,  bet  Clark  and  LaS.ille [went  to  California  in  I80O,  and  supposed  to  have  died  at  San  Fran- cisco in  the  fall  of  1851.
Jennings.  John  Drake,  clerk,  Asher  Rossetter.  res  ^Michigan  ave.  near S.  Water  [died  April  14,  1881),  :\ixi^d  :n.
Jennings.  S.  H.  (J.  Sz  Foster),  res  ^Michigan  ave,  near  S.  AVater
Jennings  tt  Foster,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  S.  Water  near  Dearborn
Jocelyn.  J.  II..  bartender,  AVestern  Hotel,  bds  same
Johnson,  A.  (J.  *t  A.  Johnson)
.Johnson,  Abram.  clerk,  Charles  Cleaver
Johnson.  Andrew  15.,  laborer.  [died  July  11,  1890.  aiicd  (u.
Johnson,  Benj.  G..  liarness  maker.  Dennison  Iforton,  res  AVabasli  ave;
Johnson,  H.  W..  bds  Mrs.  Seth  Johnson
Johnson,  J.  A:  A.,  grocers.  Dearborn,  bet  Lake  and  Soutli  AVater
Johnson,  Jacob,  waiter,  Illinois  Exchange
Johnson,  Jacob  B..  ship  painter,  res  cor  Indiana  and  Ca.ss
Johnson,  James,  drayman,  res  east  side  of  AVabash  ave,  near  and  south of  Adams
.Johnson  <Sc  Co.  (I).  X.  Davidson).  John,  barbers  and  hair  dressers.  20 Clark
Johnson,  John,  carpenter,  res  near  Jackson  and  State
[died,  Thornton,  111.,  September  4.  LSJK).  ag( d  82-0.
Johnson.  John  (.1.  Si  A.  Johnson),
Johnson.  John  (J.J.  Sc  Co.),  res  Dearborn,  bet  Washington  an<l  Al  idison
Johns(m,  John  iJ.,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
[died,  Leland,  HI.,  Octo])er  18,  18f>7,  aged  iJU-7  7.
Johnson,  Jolin  Al ,  clerk.  Bracken  S:  Tuller
Johnson,  Lathrop,  cigar  maker,  X.  B.  Wheeler
[died,  Onf(Tn;igon,  Alieh.,  .July  2,  1881,  aged  71).
Johnson..  Heter  .M.,  millwright  and  carpenter
[die<l  December  28,  1884.  aged  To.
Johnson,  Sanford.,  carpenter.  Dearborn,  bds  John  Grav
[died  Ai)ril  10,  187:;.  aged  05.
A'll'.z   l,uv..  ^
,.  u..ii  ^.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  ^J
Johnson.  Capt.  Setb.  deputy-collector  and  inspector  Port  of  Chicago,
res  s.-w.  cor  Washington  and  LaSalle  fdied
Johnson,  Mrs.  Seth,  1)oardinLi--h<)usf.  s.w.  cor  Washhiiiton  and  LaS.uk^. Johnson  it  Co.,  builders.  Dearborn,  bet  Randolph  and  \Vasliington Johnson,  William,  mason,  i?'^0  Lake Johnson,  William,  tanner.  Gurnee  vfc  ^latteson  •
Johnston.  Anthony,  steward.  City  Hotel        [died  before  ^fay  IT.  ] Sol- Johnston.  Joseph,  soap  and  candle  maker,  oT-O  Lake
,  died  April  ir,.  1864,  r.ge.i  oS. Johounett,  E.  S.  (.L.  AVells  k  Co.).  res  Kinzie,  bet  LaSalle  and 'Wells Johonnett.  AVells  ^t  Co.,  (E.  S.  Johonnett.  A.  S.  Well-,  and  Al.-on  S.
Sherman),  leatlier  dealers,  los  Lake,  cor  LaSalle Jones,  Benj.  (B.  .1.  k.  Co.),  res  109  Randolph,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died.  Alanitowoc.  Wis.,  August  11.  1S81,  aged  sT. -Jones  &:  Co.  (Wm.  Jones),  Benjamin,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  S.  AVater
east  of  Clark Jones,  D.  A.  ^  E.  M..  chair  and  cabinet  makers,  18  Dearborn Jones,  Daniel  Andrus  (D.  A.  k,  E.  31.  .].).  res  18  Dearborn
[died  Fel^ruary  2'-2.  1848,  aged  oT. Jones,  David,  cooper.  John  Govro
Jones.  Elisha  Morris  (D.  A.  ct  E.  31.  J.),  res  3Lidison.  centre  Dearborn
[died  before  Se]»tember  28.  ls.-)0.. Jones.  Fernando,  clerk,  bds  AVilliam  .Tones Jones,  Hiram,  clerk,  Lewis  AV.  Clark,  bds  William  .Tones
[died  Fel»ruary  .").  184!>.  aged  '27.. Jones,  John,  carpenter,  res  south  of  Jackson,  east  of  Clark Jones,  Ivilcr  Kent,  periodical  depot,  42  Clark,  bds  William  Jones
[died,  Qnincy.  111.,  August  20.  188<i.  aged  r,->. Jones.  Xathaniel  A.,  clerk.  .John  W.  Hooker,  bds  same
[died  3[arch  2i),  188.S.  ai^ed  82
Jones,  Tarleton.  lumber,  shingles,  w.-w.  cor  South  Water  and  Clark  at
bridge,  bds  .Mrs.  Green  [died  St'[)tember  10.  1><T8,  aged  (>.").
Jones,  William  [Golden!.  (I>.  J.  »t  Co.),  res  ^'4  Randolpli.  s.-e.  cor  Dear-
Iwrn.  memlx-r  of  Roaid  of  Health      [died  .bin.  IS.  isiis.  :io-(m1  ^714.
Jones,  AN'iliiam  Edwin  (Ogden  tV  J.),  bds  William  B.  Ogden
[died  March  !).  \><rA,  age.l  :-i4. Jones.  William  Harrison,  clerk,  H.  W.  Biuelow,  bds  William  Jones
[died,  Aiken.  S.C..  A])ril   2.-).  ISoO.  aged  2.;. Jordan.  James,  sailor,  res  Washington,  bet  Franklin  and  Market Joyce,  Thomas,  butcher,  res  Kinzie.  bet  baSalle  and  Wells Judd,  Norman  Buel  (Scammon  k.  J.),  notary,  bds  City  Hotel
[died   Novemlier  fl.'lsTS.  aued  (54. Judson,  Edwin,  dentist,  (;s  Lake,  res  State,  bet  .Madison  and  Wash.
idled  March  3.  issu,  aged  ^0.
6S  CHICAGO    DIRfXTORY,    1843.  •>,
Kiinc,  Patrick,  draymaE.  res  Kinzie,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle
[died  August  — ,  1885,  aged  — . Kapahu,  Godfrey,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlemeul Karle,  Carl,  laborer,  res  Xorth  AVater  near  Franklin Raster,  Jolin,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Kastler,  Nicholas,  shoemaker,  res  Dutch  Settlement
[died  January  4,  1888.  aged  70. Kautenburger,  Peter,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Kay,  Abel,  farmer,  res  cor  Franklin  and  Madison Keating,  Owen,  blacksmith,  bds  Charles  31cDonnell Keef,  James,  laborer,  res  Chicago  ave,  5th  Ward
Keef,  3Iichael,  carpenter,  Cruver  tt  Sensor     [died  before  Sept.  5,  1850. Keef,  Owen,  res  Chicago  ave^  5th  Ward
Kehoe.  Michael,  laborer.  [died  May  5,  1890.  aged  83 ig-      /
Keilman,  Henry,  draper  and  tailor,  Clark  near  South  Water Kelley,  Edward,  apprentice.  Ellis  <Sz  Fergus,  bds  Thomas  Kelley Kelley,  John,  bhacksmith,  North  AVater,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie Kelley,  Patrick,  provisions.  Lake,  near  Sauganash  Hotel Kelley,  Thomas,  gardener,  res  Xorth  Branch,  4tli  Ward
[died  July  1807,  aged  — .
Kellogg,.  B.  C,  cooper,  Xorton  &  Tuckerman,  res  Xorth  "Water Kellogg,  Chauncy  P.,  stage-coach  agent,  Tillotson,  Humphrey  &  Co.,
bds  Tremont  House Kelly,  Jas.,  printer,  ITcstern  C'ffizen.  res  State,  bet  Lake  and  S.  Water [died,  Winnetka,  111.,  May  5,  1805,  aged  80. Kelly,  John,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
Kelsey,  Patrick,  boarding-liouse,  AVolcott,  bet  Kinzie  and  ^Michigan Kem])er,  Wm.,  lal)orer,  AVolcott.  w.  s..  bet  Oak  and  l>ellevue,  till  185:3. Kennedy,  James,  millwright  and  engineer,  Stow's  foundry Keimcdy,  John,  saddler,  Dennison  Horton,  res  X.  >Yater,  bet  Clark  and
Dearborn Kennedy,  ^lichael.  la])orer,  res  North  Water,  bet  AYells  and  Franklin Kennicott,  William  Henry  [the  pioneer],  dentist,  138  Lake,  res  same
I  died  at  -The  Grove,''  Cook  Co.,  111.,  Oct.  22,  1802,  agvd  54-H-f;. Kernikerbacker,  Samuel  K.,  shoemaker,  res  south  of  First Kernikerbacker,  ]\lrs.  S.  P..  dressmaker,  res  south  of  First Kenny,  Patrick,  laborer,  res  AVolcott,  l)et  North  Water  and  Kinzie Kent,  Ji.  H.  (K.  k  Gilson),  bds  Tremont  House Kent,  Daniel  AV.,  turner.  Trundjull  Kent
Kent,  Lawrence,  cabinet  maker.  Lake,  near  Tremont  House,  res  Lake Kent,  'I'rumbull,  turner,  Pvandolpli,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells Kent  Jc  Gilson,  livery  stable.  Lake Keougli,  Michael,  laborer,  res  W.  \^'ater,  bet  Washington  and  ^ladisoii
[died  ,  1880,  aged
Kcrcheval,  OJholson.  real  estate  dcider,  ])ds  Mrs.  Post    [died  Californin. Kercheval,  Lewis  Ca>s,  justice  of  the  peace,  5  Clark,  bds  City  Hotel
[died  Deceml)er  8,  1852,  aged  (!4. Kesson,  A.,  bds  Mahlon  I).  Ogden
Kettlestring,  Joseph,  teamster,  res  ^Morgan,  bet  Randolph  and  Lake^
[died  November  17,  I880,  aged  T5.
r.  1
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  69
Kiest,  Hem'Y.  laborer,  res  cor  North  Wells  and  Chicago  ave
I  died,  Xorthtield.  111..  1882.  aged  7o.
Kiliey,  3Iicliael,  laborer,  les  Xorth  Chirk,  bet  AVater  and  Kiuzie Killick,  James  Evans,  soap  and  caudle  maker,  res  ]\richigan  ave
[died  January  27,  18^7,  aged  S3. Kimball.  Harlow,  res  71  Monroe  near  State
[died.  Oakhuid,  Cal..  August  25,  1881,  aged  78. Kiuiball,  3Iark.  l)Ookke"ei)er.  Botsford  &  Beers,  bds  Jabez  K.  Botsford
[died  Mav  29,  1801,  aged  70. Kiml)all.  Walter.  [died  Auuust  17,  1882.  age'd  72.
Kind.ell.  IMartin  Xelson.  farmer         [died  Feb.  13,  l89o.  aged  83-0-20. Kimberly,  Edmund  Stoughten,  physician.  l(il  J^ake,  res  77  State
[died.  Biirrington,  Ilk.  (October  2o,  1874,  aged  72. King.  J.,  carpenter,  bds  Samuel  Jackson,  Fort  Dearborn King.  .John,  jr.,  fancv  drv  uoods,  28  Dearl)orn,  i)ds  Mrs.  Haii^ht
[died  January  18,  1891.  aged  85-9-13. King,  Xathaniel.  clerk,  Tuthill  King,  res  12  Lake
[died,  St.  Charles,  HI.,  Fel)ruary  21,  189-1,  aged  88. King,  Solomon,  hostler,  Illinois  Exchange,  b<ls  same King.  Thomas,  shipcarpenrer.  res  bet  State  and  Clark
King.  Tuthill,  ready-made  clothing,  dry  goods,  etc.,  115  Lake,  res  198 Clark  '  [died.  Thomasville.  Ga..  31arch  Ki,  188G,  aged  82.
King,  Wendell  IL.  clerk,  Gurnce  ik  Matteson,  bds  Tremont  House
[died  March  30,  1884,  aged  60. King.  Willis,  lumber  salesman,  Geo.  W.  Snow,  res  Clark  [d.  Dee.  4,  '53. Kingswell,  William,  team:-ter.  res  Wabash  ave.  bet  Jackson  and  Fifth Kinnev,  Joel,  tanner,  Gurnee  S:  3[atteson,  res  43  Franklin  near  Lake
[died.  Wilmette.  111..  April  8,  1888,  aged  8G. Kinyon,  Anson,  harness  maker,  Dennison  Horton
Kiuzie,  John  Han-is,  register  CS.  land  office,  82  Lake,  res  243  Michi- gan [died,  on  car.s  near  Pittsburg.  Pa.,  June  19,  18()5.  aged  62. Kiuzie,  Jolm  llan-i<,  jr..  kilhd.  Ft.  St. Charles.  Ark.,  June  18,  1862.  a.  33 Kinzie,  Itobert  Allen.  [died  I)eceml)er  13,  1873.  aged  63. Kirk.  George,  foundrynian.  bds  LaSalle  House Kirk,  William,  laborer,  res  cor  Dearborn  and  Xorth  Water Kisling,  John,  furrier,  Anton  Getzler,  bds  same Kittel,  Michael,  cooper,  Clark,  res  Franklin Kiaffy,  Thomas,  laborer,  res  X.  Clark,  bet  X.  AVater  and  Kinzie Klear,  Franci.s  A.,  res  State Klien,  ]\[atrhias.  baker.  Xorth  Water,  res  same Kna]>p,  .M.  L.,  physician,  professor  Push  ^Medical  College,  bds  Dr.
Daniel  lirainard Knapp,  Xichohis.  v.dieehvright,  Perkins  it  Fenton
Kairkerbocker,  Abraham  Velie,  groceries  and  provisions,  South  Water, ^  bet  State  and  Oearborn  _.   [died  Aug.  20,  1847,  aged  33.
Knight,  Henry,  'col'd)  barber,  hairdresser,  baths,  54  Clark Kuight3.  Darius,  carpenter,  Ale.x.  Loyd      [died  Oct.  22,  1882.  aged  68. Kji«)])p,  Ilenrv,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement  (Wolcott,  e.s.,  bet  Oak and  Bellevue  pi]  [di(  d.  Oak  Park,  111.,  1890,  aged  94.
yo  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  '    V  )
Knox,  James  H.,  tanner.  "Wells,  cor  Polk  [died  July  31.  184f>.
Knutson,  Xelson,  laborer,  res  X.  AVells.  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie Kniitson.  011a,  lal>orer.  res  Xorth  Water  near  Xorth  Branch  bridge Kober.  Charles.  l)Utcher.  south  side  Randolph,  near  Franklin,  res  >anic
[died  May  1;^.  1S52,  ao-ed  4T-4-20. Kommcyer,  Bernhard.  tailor.  Clark,  bet  Lake  and  South  Water
[resides  at  Lockport.  IIL Krafft.  Joseph  W..  shoemaker,  Dan.  Taylor,  res  Clark  near  Randolph Kreinbill.  John,  cabinet  maker,  res  rear  324  Randolph Krcyenbeihl.  Jolin.  cabinet  maker,  Caleb  Morgan Krinbill,  Martin,  clerk,  Albert  G.  Ilobbie Kroger.  Arnold,  cabinet  maker,  res  Lake    [died  Xov.  18,  1878,  aged  74.
LabinbridiiC,  Xicholas,  laborer,  re-^  Dutch  Settlement
Lacey.  John,  baker,  res  Xorth  AVater,  bet  Dearborn  and  AYolcott
LaCroix.  Joseph,  cook.  Canada  Home,  bds  same
Ladd,  Timotliy  H.,  auction^  er,  res  Clark
Ladtshaw,  Joseph,  clerk,  Xewberry  k,  Dole,  bds  Tremont  House
Laflin,  George  IT.,  clerk.  Dyer  tt  Chapin,  bds  ]\[athew  Lafiin
Latiin.  Lycurgus,  clerk,  bds  .Mathew  Laflin
Laflin,  Mathew,  cn])italist.  res  7  A^ashington
LaForrest,  A.,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel
Lahy,  Sylvester,  laborer,  Xortli  Water  near  Franklin
Laister.  Henry,  clerk.  George  Chacksfield
Lake  House,  tlie  largest  in  the  city,  occupying  w.  half  of  block  front- ing on  Rush,  Micliigan.'  ami  Kinzie;  erected  in  ISofJ
Lake-Street  House  (late  Farmers'  Exchange),  lo5-7  Lake,  Dennis Spencer  Cady.  pro]).
Lamb.  Artemus,  shipcarpenter.  res  OO  ]\[jchigan  ave
Lamb.  E.  S..  laborer,  bds  Samuel  Jackson
I^mb,  Larkin.  clerk.  Sherman  A;  JMtkin,  bds  City  Refectory
Lambert,  ]\Irs.  (PI)  Luke,  res  Soutli  AVater,  l)et  LaSalle  and  Well?*
I^ncaster,  Dennis,  brickmaker,  res  ."jtli  Ward
Landrakin,  Cornelius,  laborer,  res  X.  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie
I>ane,  Elisha  Bafhelloi-.  carpenter,  res  Clark  (died  Feb.  0.,  1884.  a.  '18^4.
Lane,  George  W..  clerk,  bds  Tremont  House
{died.  :Monis.  III.,  July  20.  1SS7,  aged  Td.
Lane,  James,  boarding-house,  X.  Dearborn,  bet  X.  AVater  and  Kinzie
J-ang,  John  L.,  carriage  maker,  cor  X.  LaSalle  and  ^Michigan
I  died  A] nil  12.  ls77,  aged  7';io.
Lange,  Oscar  Godfrev,  dnig-(  h-rk.  40  Clark  street
[died  July  l:{.  ISU;}.  aged  82  0  !».
r^ansing,  Cornelius,  dry  goods  and  ^^xoceries,  Clark,  res  ^Michigan  ave
Lansing.  Samuel,  clerk.  Cornelius  Lansing
Lant'ry,  Miciiael,  drayman,  res  Wolcott,  l>et  Xorth  A\'ater  and  Kinzie
J^ppin,  Richard,  teamster,  res  cor  Wolcott  and  Cliicago  ave
[died,  Morrison,  HI.,  October  :if),  1«84,  aged  70-
5    .J-'.i   .V<:
l-.-^/    ,
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.  7 1
Lardin,  Dennis,  laborer,  res  2d  Ward
Larduer,  Bostwick,  straw  milliner,  Clark
Larkin,  Tiniotby,  mason,  res  Kinzie,  bet  X.  Franklin  and  AVells
Larrabee.  Charles  RoUin.  librarian  Young  ]Men*s  Association,  res  Wni.
M.  Larrabee Larrabee.  AVm.  ^lorse.  book-keeper.  Ogden  A:  Jones,  res  239  Indiana.
bet  Wolcott  and  Dearborn      [died.  Geneva.  111..  Sei)t.  28, 1879.  a.  TO. Larson,  Andrew,  teamster,  res  Dutch  Settlement  \d.  A])r.  2, 187:3.  a.  83. LaSalle  House,  n.-w.  cor  Randolph  and  LaSalle.  Wm.  Day,  prop. Lathrop.  Isaac,  shoemaker.  John  B.  3[itchell Latwick.  Simon,  cooper,  res  Dutch  Settlement Launder,  James,  wagon  maker,  south  of  ]\[onroe,  west  of  Clark
[died  Auo-ust  8,  1880.  acred  66. Laux.  :>ratthia>,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement  [d^Feb.  25, 1893,li.  07-9. Laux.  Peter,  blacksmith,  res  Dutt  h  Settlement Law.  Rol)ert.  tailor.  J.  H.  Hodgson,  bds  ]Mrs.  Susan  AYagner
[died  December  12,  1895,  aoed  73. Lawler.  Patrick,  laborer,  res  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells,  north  of  Michigan Lawless.  F.  H.,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  Western  Hotel Lawrence,  Edward,  waiter.  Farmers'  E.xchange Lawrence.  G.  W. Lawrence.  J.  L.  mason Lawrence,  Leander  (L,  ^^  Holland) Lawrence.  Patrick,  waiter.  Farmers'  Exchange
Lawrence,  AVilliain  L..  carpenter,  res  LaSalle.  bet  Randolph  and  Wash. Lawrence  6:  Holland,  managers  Illinois  State  Lottery,  19  Clark Lawson,  Canute.  lal)orer,  res  210  Superior  [died  Oct.  29.  1869,  a.  50^^. Lawson.  Iver.  laborer,  ])ds  240  Su})erior    [died  Oct.  3,  1872,  aged  51^.. Leach.  Patrick,  lai»orer.  res  North  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  AYolcott Leach,  Robert,  butcher.  Archibald  Cly bourn Leary.  Albert  Greene,  attorney.  53  Clark,  res  same
[died.  New  Orleans;,  La.,  August.  1853.  aged  — ^ Leavett.  C.  B.,  carpenter,  res  Kinzie.  bet  \Yolcott  and  Cass Lee,  P,euj.  Tyler,  clerk.  Illinois  ExchaniiC    [d.  A]n-.  25,  1879,  a.  08-1-5.. Lee,  Daniel,  farmer,  res  Randolph,  bet  State  and  Dearborn bee.  David  Stewart,  attorney.  Lake,  bds  Mrs.  Haiglit
[ilied,  Northampton.  ^Nlass..  November  15.  bSOO. I-ee,  John,  tobacconist.  Henry  Chapman        [died  Ik- fore  Oct.  27.  1858. bee.  Thomas,  laborer,  res  near  North  Branch  bridge,  5th  Ward bees.  James,  res  0th  AV'ard
Legg.  Mathew.  tailor.  Edward  ^lanierre.  bds  same Leonard,  Hugh,  waiter.  Chicago  Temperance  House Leonard,  J.  W.,  clerk,  Clark.  Haines  vk  Co. Leslie,  John,  painter,  res  Kinzie,  bet  ^^^olcott  and  Cass i^eslie,  Mrs.,  res  North  Water Lesser,  John,  res  2d  Ward,  south  of  First Lessey  Sc  Co.  (Samu-l  Winegar),  Jolm  F.,  billiard  saloon,  s.-w.  cor  S.
Water  and  Dearborn Lctz.  Frederick,  locksmith,  53  LaSalle      [died  Se])t.  22,  1880,  aged  70.
,^a  f
lUi-lf
^2  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  '   ■  ,-
Letz,  Jacob,  sboemaker,  ^licliigan,  bet  "Wolcott  and  Dearborn
[died  February  18,  1857,  aged  42. Liendeivener,  Joseph,  tailor,  Scott  Benedik Liffio2:\vc'll,  A.,  carpenter,  bds  Illinois  Exchange Lilh  William  (L.  &  Diversey),  res  Chicago  ave  near  St.  Clair
[died,  Denver,  Colo.,  August  11,  187.J,  aged  0714. Lind,  Sylvester,  lumber  merchant,  :2.").")  Randolph,  bds  Sauganash
[died.  Lake  Forest,  111.,  February  (J,  1892,  aged  84. Lindebner,  Joseph,  tailor,  Edward  Manierre.  bds  same Littlefield,  J.  C,  carriage  and  sleigh  maker,  Randolph  near  Wells Lobeke.  ^'\'illiam,  h^borer,  res  5th  Waid Lock,  William  (Williar^  L.  &  Co.),  res  Washington  near  State
[died  August  10,  18S;3,  aged  70^4;. Lock  Jc  Co.,  William,  ready-made  clothing,  125  Lake,  s.-e.  cor  Clark Lockhart,  31.,  carpenter,  res  Franklin,  bet  Lake  and  Randolpli Lockwood,  John  13.,  tailor,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie Lohn.  Christopher,  tailor,  Scott  Benedik Long.  James,  proprietor  hydraulic  mill,  n.-e.  cor  Lake  and  3[ich.  ave
[died,  Paris,  France,  April  10,  1870,  aged  74. Loomis.  Henry,  lumber  merchant,  cor  West  Water  and  I^andolph
[died,  Burlington,  Yt.,  December  18,  1880,  aged  08. Loomis,  Horatio  Gates,  at  C.  L.  Harmon  s,  res  s.-w.  cor  State  and  Wash Loring.  L.  D.,  clerk.  Ward  Rathbone
Love.  James,  carpenter,  res  Randolph,  bet  Franklin  and  ]\[arket Lovell,  Vincent  S.,  leather,  etc.,  Clark  near  Lake,  bds  Chicago  Temp. Lovett.  3Iichael  (3Ielvin  ct  L.),  res  X.  Clark,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie Lowe,  James  3L,  city  clerk,  office  s.-w.  cor  Clark  and  Randolph,  bds
Sam.  J.  Lowe Lowe,  <'>scar,  clerk,  Elislia  S.  ^  Julius  AVadsworth,  bds  SaniT  J.  Lowe Lowe,  Samuel  A.,  clerk,  Scammon  ct  Juihl,  bds  Sainuel  J.  Lowe
[died,  Alaska  Territory,  ISS-.
Lowe,  Samuel  James,  sheriff  Cook  County,  res  Jail,  s.-e.  cor  Randolph
and  LaSalle  [died  Septeml)er  10,  1851,  aged  ~)^l^  >■
Lower.  Jolin,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
[Jacol),  died,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  :May  8,  184!). Lowry,  James,  laborer,  Crurdon  S.  Hubbard Lov.Ty,  John,  laborer,  res  Fort  Dearborn Lovd,  Alexander,  carpenter  and  builder,  (L.,  Blakcslev  k  Co.),  res  52
Wells  [4th  mayor,  died,  Lyons,  Cook  Co  ,  111.,  Ai)ril  11.  1871,  a.  00^ 3. Loyd,  ]31akesley  k  Co.  (A.  Loyd,  H.  A.  Blakesley,  and  Henry  Norton  1.
dry  goods  and  groceries,  101  Lake Lubke,  Ferdinand,  mason,  res  south  of  Jackson  and  west  of  Clark Ludbv,  John,  soa[)  and  candle  maker,  Soutli  Branch,  ?j  miles  south
[died  January  24,  1872,  aged  7^. Lunt,  r)irington.  commission  merrfiant.  S.  AVater,  bds  John  B,  Mitchell Luther,  John,  cliairmaker.  I).  A.  k.  K.  3L  Jones Lyman,  lienjamin,  cook,  Illinois  Excliangc
Lyman.  Daniel,  miller,     [died  at  Hyde  I'ark,  Aj^ril  10,  1882,  agvd  02. Lynch,  Patrick,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
'i    Inu^-rU^i'-.
'•!    .       /r):   .
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  73
Lyons.  Robert,  looking-glasses,  frames,  etc..  S3  Lake,  bds  Treniont
Lytle,  William  J.,  clerk.  ILimilton  it  AVhite
]\icAuleY,  Patrick,  laborer.  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard  .  .:
;>[cBean.  ,  laborer,  res  Dearborn
AIcBride,  Thomas,  teamster,  cor  Franklin  and  Aladison
^[••Cabe.  John,  tanner.  Gurnee  ct  3Iatteson
McCade,  Patrick,  porter.  Tremont  House  - .    ".
McCann,  Francis,  cooper,  res  A'anBuren  near  3Iarket
McCaun.  Patrick,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Wells  '
McCanner,  ]Mrs.,  res  west  of  ^Lirket,  south  of  AVasliington
]N[cCanny.  clerk.  Henry  M.  Stow
McCarthy,  Owen,  grocery  and  boarding,  Xortli  Water  near  Wolcott
McCarthy.  Patrick,  laborer,  n.-e.  cor  Dearborn  and  Washington
[died  March  15.  18.18.  aged  — . McCarty,  Timothy,  laborer,  res  near  Xorth  Branch  bridge,  5th  ^Vard 3fcCarty,  AVilliam,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  Western  Hotel ]McCauly,  Patrick,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement McClellau,  John,  general  supt.  of  public  works,  on  Lake  ^Michigan ^IcClelland.  Hugh,  wagonmaker.  James  Clifford,  res  5th  AVard
[<licd.  Lake  Forest.  Lake  Co..  HI.,  January  1,  1885.  aged  79. McClure,  A.  AL,  baker,  James  L.  flowe
McClure,  Sam'l,  lotterv  ag't.  Carlton  Holland,  bds  Farmers'  Exchange
[died  184;3.
McClusker.  Patrick,  mason,  res  near  Xorth  Branch  bridge McComas.  Samrel,  tailor,  res  West  Water,  bet  Randolph  and  Lake McComas.  Samuel  J.,  teacher,  school  and  res  near  Sauganash  Hotel McComas,  S.  H.,  tailor,  res  LaSalle.  bet  Lake  and  South  Water McComber,  Miss,  milliner,  etc..  155  Lake,  up  stairs,  res  same AfcConnell.  Edward,  gardener,  res  S.  Branch.  2  miles  south,  west  side
[died  Atay  11,  1878,'  aged  72i^. McConnell,  John,  book-keeper.  Seth  T.  Otis,  bds  City  Refectorv
[died  August  18.  1855.  aWd  55. >[cCord,  Jason  (AFoseley  Sc  ^IcC.j,  bds  D.  B.  Heartt.  alderman  2d  ward, county  conimissioner  [died  Xovem])er  28,  1870.  a^ed  01.
McConnack,  3Irs..  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Wells  and  Franklin McCorristen,  Wm.,  prop.  American  Hotel.  Xorth  Water
fdicd.  St.  Louis,  :Mo..  Octolior  25,  1802.  aged  07. McCowan.  James,  res  bet  Alarkct  and  South  liranch McCue.  Patrick,  laborer,  res  Randolph  [died  before  Jan.  I'd.  1852.
-^IcCuen.  Michael,  warehousciiuin.  Xewberry  c^-  Dole McTAil lough,  David,  mason,  bds  Illinois  Exchange McDermott.  ,  hatter,  f.orcnzo  P.  Sanger,  bds  ^lansion  House
McDonald,  Dennis,  sailor,  res  Dutch  Settlement M^-Donald,  Michael,  grocer.  Xorth  Water  near  AN'olcott
[died  April  4.  1857. McDonnell,  Charles,  grocery  and  boarding  house,  33  Market
[died  April  10,  1HM5,  aged  81. >b  Donnell.  James  [died  1870.
^IclJonnough,  Matthias,  laborer,  alley  near  X.  Clark  and  X.  Water
i ':  7
If!!  '073.     ''!•
74  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.        '  '
3IcDonnongli,  Michael,  car})euter,  alley  near  X.  Clark  and  N.  "Water
McDonnongh,  I*.  H.,  captain  scliooner  Charlotte
]McDonnough,  Thos.,  dravnian.  res  AV.  Water,  bet  Randolpli  and  Lake
iMcGilorev,  John,  cabinet  maker,  Manahau  vfc  Jacobus
McGlashau,  John,  gardener,  res  Archer  ave,  2  miles  south
[died  August  11,  1873,  aged  58. McGlin.  Micliael.  laborer McGovern,  John,  laborer,  res  Franklin,  bet  Wasliington  and  Madison
[died  July  21,  1883,  aged  82. McGraw.  Edward,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died,  Pecatonica.  111.,  July  14,  1890,  aged  — . McGraw.  James,  mason,  A.  S.  Sherman
McGraw.  IMrs.,  res  S.  Clinton,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington McGraw,  Patrick,  clerk,  James  Ilervey,  bds  Canada  House McGraw,  Volney.  laborer.  Sylvester  3[arsh 3IcGuire,  Michael,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died,  Pecatonica,  111..  July  14,  1890,  aged  — . McHale.  John,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died  :\hirch  17,  18.j4,  aged  — . McHenry,  Peter  (col'd),  [Black  Pete],  cook,  City  Hotel,  res  Clark  near
Jackson Mcllwaine,  Miithcw,  physician,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel ]\IcIntosh,  David,  sailor,  res  Ohio,  bet  Pine  and  St.  Clair Mcintosh,  Wm.,  capt.  schooner  Victory,  res  Michigan,  bet  Dearborn
and  Wolcott  [lost  on  Schr.  Victory^  31arch,  1844.  on  Lake  3Iichigan Mclntyre,  Francis  A.,  clerk,  Asher  Rossetter,  bds  same Mclntyre,  John,  grocer,  cor  AVest  Water  and  Randolph Mclntyre,  3Iorgan,  res  south  of  Jackson,  3d  AVard  ,  .  .  ,
Mclntyre.  William,  Scoville  it  Gates  '      '"   '  '  ■  .  :
3IcKay.  Patrick,  saloon,  res  Xorth  Water  near  Kinzie McKay.  Samuel,  groceries  and  provisions,  junction  Xorth  Water  and
Kinzie,  res  same  [died  Fcl»ruary  5,  1871,  aged  58.
McKinney,  Joseph,  pedler.  bds  American  Temperance  House McKniglit,  John,  hatter,  Lorenzo  P.  Sanger  is:  Co.,  bds  Jas.  A.  Smith McLaren.  Henry,  laI>orer.  res  3Iarket 3IcLean,  Thomas,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement McLeoud.  R.,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  AVestern  Hotel ]McM^ilion.  Patrick,  porter.  City  Hotel  '••■
Mc>[alion,  Patrick  T.,  tailor.  Lake
McManniman,  Jacolj,  laborer,  res  ^ladison  near  Franklin INIcMiilen,  A.,  carpenter,  bds  Illinois  Exchange McMulIen,  William,  drayman,  res  Canal,  bet  ivandolph  and  Lake ]McXeil,  James,  laborer,  Gurdou  S,  Hul^bard
^IcXeil,  Joseph,  laborer,  res  Xortii'Water  near  Xorth  Branch  bridge McXeii.  ,Malcohn.  shipcarpentcr,  Xorth  Branch  near  Chicago  ave McXeil.  ^Hchael,  laborer,  '^urdon  S.  Hubbard McQuin.  John,  laborer,  res  Washington,  bet  AV'ells  and  Franklin
[died  October  2(),  1855, McQuia,  .Alichael,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  75
3[cShea.  ]Miclidel,  lal)orer,  res  Xortli  Watei'  near  Franklin 3IcAVilliams,  James,  chair  maker.  40  Franklin,  res  same
[died,  Oak  Park,  111.,  1890,  a^cd  75.
]Mack.  Firman,  clerk,  Wm.  H.  Adams  Sz  Co.,  res  LaSalle,  bet  ]Madison
and  AVasliincrton  [drowned  in  Chicago  River,
Gladden.  AMUiam,  grocer.  South  Water
3Iagce.  Henry,  lawyer  [died  June  21,  185o,  aged  rtl%.
^lagee,  William  J.,  laborer,  res  ^V.  Lake,  liet  AVater  and  Canal Magie,  Haines  II  (H.  H  31.  ct  Co.),  res  279  Ohio
[died,  AVashington,  D.C.,  January  1(5,  1879,  aged  75. Magie  ct  Co..  H.  H,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  loO  Lake 3[agill.  Alexander  AV.,  clerk.  Theron  Pardee,  bds  Arthur  AY.  ]N[agill 3Iagill.  Arthur  AY.,  clerk,  U.  S.  land  office,  res  ALich.,  bet  Push  and  Pine Magili.  Julian  (AYhitins-,  31.  &  Co.),  bds  Arthur  AY.  ^lagill Maguire,  Bernard,  cooper,  Charles  AYalker  it  Co. IMahan.  Owen,  laborer,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Franklin  and  AYells 3[ahau,  Thomas,  sailor,  steamer  Chamj^hii 3Iaher.  Hugh,  cooper,  Eri  Reynolds'  packing-house,  South  Branch
[died,  Hyde  Park,  Jaiuiary  22,  1884,  :igcd  66. ^lahoney,  Jeremiah,  laborer,  res  X.  Dearborn,  bet  AA^ater  and  Kinzie Malcolm.  Robert,  mason  builder,  res  Clark  hear  AYasliington
[died  October  9, 1871,  aged  68. Mallady.  John,  laborer,  res  North  AA^ater,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn Malzicher,  Louis,  groceries  and  provisions,  167  Lake,  res  same
[died  April  24,  1868,  aged  68. Mimuhan,  Owen,  carpenter,  bds  John  Ryan
[died.  Highland  Park,  111.,  (October  11,  1888,  aged  — . !Maaahan,  Thomas  Q>i.  6c  Jacobus),  res  Clark
[died,  Norwood  Park,  Cook  Co.,  Ill,,  .Alarch  81,  1884,  aged  713.^. Manalian  A:  Jacobus,  cabinet  makers,  10  Clark Manierre,  Edward,  tailor,  48  Clark,  bds  Elisha  Clark,  1st  AA^ard
[died.  New  London,  Conn.,  July  26,  1890,  aged  78. Manierre,  George  (>I.  Sc  Ateeker),  res  49  State,  school  commissioner
[died  Alay  21,  1863,  aged  46. Manierre  >k  Sleeker,  attorneys,  118  Lake 3Ianley,  AVilliam  E..  Universalist  clergyman,  res  Clark 3Iann.  Cyrus,  family  groceries,  47  Clark,  res  same
[died  in  California,  1851. Mann.  J.,  hatter,  Israel  Cyrus  Stepliens Mann.  Tie! man,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement
Mansion  House,  84-6  Lake,  Skinner  (Chas.)  *.V  Smith  (Jos.  Flint)  j)rops Marback,  Joseph,  farmer,  cor  Chicago  av  and  Rush,  ahlerman  6th  ward 3[ariam,  James,  cooper,  Charles  Walker  6:,  Co. ^larkesen.  Ole,  carpenter,  res  Dutck. Settlement Markle,  Abram  A.,  laborer.  North  Branch,  4th  AVard
[died  Novemher  80,  1845,  ai^ed  48. Mars.  Samuel,  pump  pedler,  res  f.aSalle,  bet  Wasliington  and  .Madison ^larsallani,  Louis,  stone  <juarrier,  bds  Charles  .McDonnell Mar^h,  Alexander,  with  Luther  Marsh,  bds  same  [d.  Oct.  9, 1874,  a,  58-
c  \
'•;   1  »■>•/;.
All
.>■!  /.If.
y6  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
3[arsli.  Elislia  Azro,  with  Luther  ^Nlarsh,  l)ds  same
[dicfi  Sitka,  Ahiska.  April  10,  1880,  aged  G:3. Marsh.  Joshua  Leonard,  law  student,  Spring  A:  Goodrich,  bds  L.^Iarsh
[died  July  23,  1890,  aged  64. Marsh,  Luther,  hmiber  merchant,  res  ]Madison.  bet  AVells  and  Franklin
[died  Xovember  14,  1859.  aged  77. Marsh,  Svlvester,  98  Lake,  packing-house,  304-6  Xorth  Water
[died.  Concord,  X,  H.,  December  30,  1884,  aged  81. Marshall,,  Francis,  auctioneer,  bds  Xew  York  House ^larshall,  Henry,  Sco\ille  <t  Gates'  foundry Marshall  [M.D.],  James  Augustus,  aactioneer,  Parker  &  Dodge
[died  3Iarch  31,  1891,  aged  81-9-22. 3Iartel,  Thomas,  carpenter,  bds  AYashington  Hall Martin,  John,  laborer,  res  West  Water Martin,  Joseph  Hopkins,  manager,  Western  Hotel.  West  Randolph
[died  March,  1895.  aged  S3. !Martindale,  John,  clerk,  Bristol  k.  Porter,  bds  City  Refectory Martling,  Jan\es  A.,  printer,  Ellis  A:  Fergus,  bds  William  Ellis Mathews,  James,  shijvcarpenter.  [arrived  Septeml)er  6.  1843.
^lathewson,  Artemas  J.,  draughtsman,  Ogdcn  tt  Jones, ^lattes,  Mathias,  laborer,  res  east  side  ot  State  south  of  YanBureu
[died  April  4,  1877,  agcl  — . Slattern,  Frederick,  tailor
Matteson,  Jos.  (Gurnee  &  M.),  res  State,  bet  Washington  and  Randolph
[died  January  8,  1852,  ag-d  36. Mattson.  D.,  clerk,  Sylvester  ^Nlarsh
Maurer,  David,  teamster,  res  cor  Madison  and  Desplaines Maurer,  Jacol)  [AYuter  Jake],  waterman,     [died  Dec.  22,  1885,  aged  80. Maxson.  David,  tin  and  coppersmitli.  Samuel  J.  Surdam Maxwell,  Philip,  physician,  s.-w.  cor  Clark  and  Lake,  res  79  Clark
[died.  Geneva,  AVis,.  November  5,  1859,  aged  '■-'>i<- 3Iaxwell,  Thomas,  lal^orer,  res  Illinois,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells
[died  1872,  aged  54.
^Maynard,  H.  E.,  lawyer,  Smith  k.  Ballingall ]\rayo,  Samuel,  carpenter,  bds  New  York  House !Meacham.  H.  T.,  hostler.  New  York  House ^leacham,  Silas,  lighthouse  keeper,  res  2  River
[died.  Araine.  Cook  Co.,  111..  July  21,  1852,  a-ed  6:; Mead,  Enos  L..  carpenter,  res  N.  AN'ater,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott LMedcweller,  Henry,  shoemaker.  North  AYater,  bet  Clark  and  Dcarljorn ]\Ieeker,  George  W.  (Manierre  cSc.M.),  bds  165  Clark
[died  A])ril  2,  1856,  aged  37. Meeker,  Joseph,  carpenter  and  builder,  res  165  Clark
...    [died  January  4,  1872,  aged  O6I4. Melody,  Michael,  res  Washington,  bet  Franklin  and  Market Melvin,  Thomas,  shoemaker,  South  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearborn
[died  July  31,  1883,  ai'-ed  73.. >Ielvin  vt  Levett.  boot  and  shoe  makers,  South  Water  east  of  Clark 3Ielvin,  Thomas  J.,  res  State
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  7/
3reiTiam,  ^[rs.  Mary,  boarding-liouse  Lake,  bet  State  and  Wabash  a^  e Merrifield,  Edward,  clerk,  Ballcntine  it  Sherman
[died  Jainiary  27.  1889.  aged  Id}.,- Merrill,  George  AV.,  provisions,  etc.,  157  Lake,  s.-e.  cor  LaSalle 3[errill,  Winthrop
3[erritt,  Jacob  DeWitt,  commission  merchant,  110  So.  Water,  res  State [died,  Winona.  :\Iinn..  July  24.  1881,  aged  70. 3[ess.  George,  canal  contractor,  res  40  ]\Iichigan  ave
[died  near  Lockport,  IIL ^letz,  Christopher,  tinsmith,  William  Wheeler  Sz  Co.
[died  December  10,  1880,  aged  64. Meville,  Peter  Dominique,  carpenter,  bds  Canada  House
[died  March  8,  1884,  aged  08-5. 3feyer,  Ferdinand,  butcher,  bds  3Iorris  3[eyer Clever,  ^Matthias,  res  ^Michigan,  bet  X.  Clark  and  LaSalle ^Nfeyer,  ^[orris,  baker,  ^Michigan,  east  of  Clark Migely,  Rudolph,  grocer,  182  Randolph,  res  same
[died  December  30,  1885,  aged  74. Allies,  ,  carpenter,  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn
>Iillar,  Robert  ]M.,  ship  carpenter.  Fort  Dearborn
[died  Morc-h  13,  1881,  aged  05}^. Miller,  Chas.  [Andrew  J.],  barljerand  hairdresser.  19  ^Market,  res  Canal
[died,  Memphis,  Tenn.,  Sept.  2,  1804. Miller,  David,  machinist.  Elihu  Granger's  foundry ^liller,  H.,  tobacconist,  S^)  Lake
3liller,  Henry,  mason,  res  s.  e.  cor  Wells  and  ]\[adison Miller,  Jacob,  blacksmith,  res  Lidiana,  bet  Wolcott  and  X.  Dearborn
'  [died  March  10,  1890,  aged  79. Miller,  Peter,  shoemaker,  Thomas  Whitlock
Milliken,  Isaac  Lawrence,  foreman  blacksmith,  Frink,  Walker  tt  Co.. res  ri3th  mayor,  died  December  2,  1889,  aged  70.
Mills,  John  Rodnev,  produce  dealer,  bds  Amei-ican  Temperance  House Mills,  Royal  Alex.  Blaine,  bds  [died  Ja.n.  25,  1882.  aged  OOI4.
Mills,  Samuel,  grocer,  res  Clark Miltimore,  Ira,  millwright  and  machinist,  res  S.  Canal,  3d  Ward
[died,  .lanesville,  A\'is.,  June  8,  1879,  aged  00. Misener,  Henry,  ])!acksmith,  hvdraulic  works,  res  Franklin
[died  AuuiLst  9,  1851,  aged  52. Misener,  ^Mortimer  C,  printer,  Ellis  >k  Fergus.  l)ds  H.  IMisener
[died  Fe1)ruary  5,  1891,  aged  05. Mitchell,  George,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  ^Vestern  Hotel -'^fitchell,  George,  cooper,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
Mitcliell,  John  Berry,  boots  and  shoes,  22  (Jlark,  res  cor  (Mark  and  Kin- zie  "  Idied  ^larch  17,  1878,  aged  OD^^.
Mitcliell,  Joseph,  car])enter,  res  North  Rrancli
-died  Se])tem]>cr  13,  1850,  aged  — . ^fitcheil,  Mark,  carpenter,  res  Xortli  W^ater  near  North  liranch Mitcliell,  ^Villiam,  carpenter,  res  W.  .Madison,  Ijet  Canal  and  Clinton '^iitcheli,  ,  carpenter,  bds  Chicago  Temperance  House
![   .i
I;  .--•  ,y
I)  .>  ■/.
78  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.
]VI(^eng,  Dicderic,  cabinet  maker,  Caleb  Moriian
[died  April  18,  1894.  aged  S3. 3Ioffet.  James,  Scoville  A:  Gates 3[olloy,  Joliii,  carpenter,  bds  Charles  3[cDonnell
3Ionaghaii.  lliigli.  blacksmith.  [died  Jan.  1,  1884,  aged  G4.
]VIongeon.  Feli\',  grocer,  cor  Xorth  AVater  and  Wolcott >[ontgomery,  G.  B.  S..  shoemaker,  Samuel  J.  Grannis ^routgomery,  J.  H.,  shipcarpenter.  Fort  Dearborn 31outgomery.  Loton  W..  shoemaker,  Jerome  Beecher,  res  ]\rttrket
[died  September  30,  18GG,  aged  QO}i. Moody,  Daniel,  sailor,  res  North  Water  near  Rush bloody.  Grin  C.  hatter.  Israel  C.  Stephens  [died  Oct.  15,  1881,  a.  05}^^. ^looney,  3Iichael,  blacksmith,  res  Michigan  ave
]V[()oney,  Peter,  ])lacksmith,  bds  M.  ]\[ooncy       [d.  Jan.  22,  1893,  a.  TT). INIoore,  Bichard,  tailor.  South  Water,  bet  State  and  Wabash  ave ]V[orey,  Daven])ort,  lard-(Ml  factory,  51-8  South  AYater 3Iorey,  Davenport,  jr.,  warehouseman,  Horace  Butler Morev.  Edward,  treasurer  Y'oung  Men's  Lvceum
3Iorev,  Georue  (M.  &:  Dike),  ])ds  Isaac  Dike  [died  Oct.  3,  1893,  a.  74. Morey,  Henry  C,  [died  March  14,  1889,  aged  57.
Morey,  Richard  H.,  law  student,  Spring  &  Goodrich storey  v?c  Dike,  familv  j^-rocers,  8  Dearltorn
3[organ,  Caleb,  cabinet  maker,  199  Lake  [died  Xov.  23,  1871,  a.  75. Morgan,  Hector  X.,  painter,  Xathan.  S.  Gushing  [died  Aug.  30,  1852. 3Iorgan,  Patrick  Richard  [veterinary  surgeon],  carriage-driver
[died  September  5^  1891,  aged  G8-0. ]Morris,  Buckner  Smith,  attorney,  59  Clark,  res  Indiana,  bet  Cass  and
Rush  [Chicago's  2d  mayor,  died  December  IG,  1879,  aged  79 1^.
Morris,  Mrs.,  res  X.  Dearl)orn,  bet  Xorth  Water  and  Kinzie Morrison.  Daniel,  teamster,  [died  November  8,  1880,  aged  GO.
^lorrison,  f^[)]iraim,  hat-and-cap  factory,  Dearborn,  bet  Lake  and
South  Water  "    [died  Sept.  22,  1851,  aged  70.
!>[<)rrison,  E])hraim,  jr.,  teamster,  res  111  Madison
[died  June  IG,  1880,  aged  G5. ^lorrison,  Ezekiel,  carpenter,  res  123  Clark    [died  Feb.  2G,  1895,  a.  84. Morrison,  James  M.,  carpenter,  res  131  Clark   jdied  Dec.  28, 18G8,  a.  G2. Morrison,  ^lichael,  laljorer,  res  near  West  AYater  and  Lake 3Iorrison,  ]\Irs.,  res  AYells.  bet  AYashington  and  Randolph ^Morrison.  Or.>emus,  carijcnter,  res  153  Clark  [died  Jan.  4,  18G4,  a.  SS^^- Morrison's  Jlow.  139-57  Clark Moselev,  Flavel  (A[.  A:  McCord),  ]>ds  Daniel  B.  Heartt
[died,  AYilliamsburg,  X.Y'.,  Sei)tem1>er  29,  18G5,  aged  G7. Moseley  iSc  McCord,  dry  goods  and  groceric'^,  130  Lake Closes,  Hiram  P.,  maehinist,  bds-Sabin  AYight
Slower,  Geo.  AY.,  wheat  buyer,  Jno.  P.  Chai)in  <k  Co.,  bds  City  Refectory kludge,  Colby,  blacksmith,  Asahel  Pierce
Mueller,  Jacob,  blacksmith,  res  Indiana,  bet  Dearborn  and  AA'olcott 3Iukant,  P.,  clerk,  Jolin  B.  Busch Mullen,  John,  farmer,  res  near  AV.  AYashinuton,  3d  AYard
(I    i.o.  .
,};<!•'!
•>•>:;;!.
'  '-"X.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  79
Mailer.  Matthias,  ]al:>()ver,  res  Dutch  Settlement
Mimson.  F.  A.,  res  Illinois  Exchange,  192  Lake
3Iiinzer,  David,  lal)orer,  res  AV.  Monroe,  het  Clinton  and  Jefferson
Mur])hY.  Edward,  coroner,  teacher  in  1887
[died.  Rouers  P:irk.  TIL.  January  25,  187.5.  aged  70. 3Iurphy,  James  K.,  tinsmith,  l)ds  Peter  Fennerty 3Iurj)hy.  John,  pro]).  United  States  Hotel,  n.-\v.  cor  ^\.  Water  and  W,
Ivandol})h,  alderman  4th  ward  [died  Augu-st  14,  1850,  aged  47.
3Iurj>hy,  John,  laborer,  res  North  AVater  near  Pine Murphy,  3Irs.,  res  ]\[ichiuan  ave,  l)et  Adams  and  Jackson Mur})hy,  Timothy,  res  AVashinoton,  s.-w.  cor  iVItirket ^lurray.  George,  tailor.  204  Lake,  res  same 3[urray,  James  (M.  Jc  Brand),  hds  City  Hotel Murray,  Jolm,  hiborer.  res  AV'est  Water,  bet  Cnnal  and  Clinton Murray  *fc  Brand,  bankers  and  exchanue  l)rokers,  125  Lake,  s.-w,  cor
Clark 3Iu>ham,  AVilliam,  dravman,  res  Indianii,  l)et  Dearborn  and  AVolcott
[died  August,  1844,  aged  44. Alyers.  Frederick  F.,  laborer,  res  North  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Wells Myers,  AEatthias,  res  Michigan  st
Myers,  Owen,  drayman,  res  Kinzie,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells Myers,  Peter,  laborer,  res  Chicago  ave,  Dutch  Settlement 3Ivrick.  Willard  Franklin,  hotel-keeper.  Cottage  Grove  ave,  bet  20th
and  :30th  [died  January  27,  1889,  aged  79.
Xauljerger,  Hugh,  baker,  Pfund  <k  Co.
Xelson,  Andrew.  ])(M-tcr,  Tremont  House  [suicide,  March  15,  185G.
Nelson.  Andrew,  lal^orer,  res  North  AVater  near  Market
[died  July  29,  1887,  aged  GO.]. Nelson,  Claudius  B.,  book-keeper,  AVilliam  Blair  S:  Co.
[died,  Hyde  Park,  Cook  Co.,  HI.,  Alarch  29,  1885,  aged  05.^^. Nelson,  Peter,  sashmaker,  res  North  AVater  near  Dearborn
[died  l^efore  July  10,  1850. Neudorf,  Nicholas,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Newberry,  AV'alter  Loomis  (N.  6c  Burch),  res  Illinois,  bet  Hush  and
Pine,  member  board  of  health       [died  on  French  steamer  Feriere,
en  route  to  France,  Nov.  G,  18G8,  aged  G4. New]>erry  tt  Burch,  bankers  and  exchange  brokers,  97  Lake Newberry  (Oliver,  of  Detroit)  vfc  Dole,  forwarding  and  commission
merc])ants,  14G-52  S.  AVater  and  N.  AVater,  s.  e.  cor  l^ish Newburg,  Phili[),  tailor  and  ready-made  clothing,  15;i  Lake
[res  Cincinnati,  C). N»/\v  ButTalo,  north  of  Cliicago  ave  and  oast  of  North  Clark— synono-
mous  with  Dutch  Settlement. ^>Wcom]),  ,  tailor,  J.  Elliott
Newcome,  J.  C.,  timb<'i-  sawyer,  and  grocery.  North  AVater  near  Clark ^'••w]lall,  Harrison,  fruit  and  groceries,  12o  Lake,  l)ds  J.  D.  Jennings
^'\
8o  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.
Nw-York  IToiise.  ITS  -SO  Lake
Niblo,  Alex.  Kaiiisey,  ])niiter,  res  State       [killed  l>y  railroad  accident, ]\[ount  AYa^hing'ton,  Ohio,  June  2."),  1858,  awd  50. Xichols,  D,  M.  C,  l)ds  D.  T.  Xieliols
Xicliols.  Luther,  drayman,  48  Dearborn   [died  May  2,  1881,  aged  T53^. Nichols,  D.  T.,  saddler,  res  cor  Randolph  and  Wells Nicholsou,  Edward,  merchant,  S.  ^Vatei-,  res  OT  Hush  near  Ontario
[died  September  15,  1849. Nickalls,  Patteson,  livery-stable  kee})er,  230  Kinzie  near  Wolcott
[returned  to  England  and  died  there. Xickerson,  J         B.,  machinist,  Randolph,  res  South  Water Xickersou,  John,  cai^tain  schooner  Wave,  res  Dutch  Settlement Xoble,  Aaron,  grocer,  res  Xorth  T\'ater,  bet  Dearborn  and  AYolcott Noble,  George  Alexander,  M.D..  school-teacher,  Lake,  res  s.-e.  cor
Washington  and  Franklin Xoble,  GL^rge  W.,  carpenter,  Clinton  bet.  Randolph  and  Washington
[died  November  1,  1885,  aged  60. Xoble,  Samuel  .John,  res  George  A.  Xoble Xorris,  Henry,  bds  ALmsion  Ilouse Xonis,  James,  cari)enter,  l)ds  A.  H.  Palmer Xorris,  James  Wellini:-t<)n.  attornev.  directorv  canvasser,  38  Clark
[died  Ottumwa.  Iowa,  March  3,  1882,  aged  07. Xortham,  Robert  Rob])in3,  clerk,  John  ^V.  Hooker,  bds  same
[died  January  20,  1803.  a^ed  73. Xorton,  Cyi)rian  Collins  (X.  &  Case),  res  State.  l)et  Alad.  and  Monroe Xorton,  George  AY.,  botanic  physician,  bds  Illinois  Exchange Xorton,  Henry  (Loyd,  I'lakesley  ct  Co.),  res  81  State,  Ijet  Randoljdi
and  AVashinuton  [died  on  the  Isthmus  of  Panama,  en  route  to
California,  1840. Xorton,  Hiram  (X.  v.^' Tuckerman),  bds  Seth  Johnson Xorton,  .John,  gujismith.  Peacock  S:  Thatcher Xorton,  Theron,  drv  goods  and  groceries,  117  Lake
[died  April  24,  1844,  aged  40-4-3. Xorton  &  Case,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  80  Lake Xorton  tfc  Co.,  Horace  (H.  Xorton  and  J.  C.  AV'alterj,  dry  goods  and
groceries,  137  South  AYater Xorton  <fc  Co.,  Horace  (H.  Xorton.  J.  C.  AValter.  and  E.  K.  l-Jogir^),
forwarding  and  commission  merchants,  n.-e.  coi"  River  and  Dock Xorton  <t  Tuckermaii,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  134  Lake,  warehouse.
Xorth  AVater,  wc.-t  of  north  end  of  Clark -street  bridge
O'Brien,  Dennis,  tailor,  res  Xortli.  W^der,  bet  Dearborn  and  AVok-ott O'Brien,  Alichael,  blacksmith,  Frink,  AV'idker  6c  Co.,  res  South  AV.itcr
[died  August  14,  1852,  a-' d  — • OTirvaii,  George,  grocer,  Xorth  AVater,  bet  AVoicott  and  Kinzit-
[died  August —,  1840,  ag.-d  —. 0'Conn<;r,  Jeremiah,  blacksmith,  X.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  81
O'DoiiOglme,  Peter,  auctioneer.  170  Lake,  res  LaSalle
[died  Aiio:ust  1,  1851,  aged  — . O'Leary,  Br,  J.  E.,  i)ds  Dr.  ^Villiam  B.  E<iaii     [died  184!*,  a.  — .
0"M:dlev,  Charles,  cobbler,  shoemaker,  constable,  J. -P.,  lawyer,  Xortli Water  near  Dearborn  '  [died  March  11,  1887,  aged  75.
0'3[eara.  Timothy,  ex-Catholic  priest,  l)ds  James  Carney,  S.  W.iter O'Xeil.  Michael,  carj)enter.  res  Dearborn,  bet  X.  Water  and  Kinzie
[died  December  9,  lS(ib\  a-ed  48. O'Siillivan,  David,  res  Kinzie,  1.)et  X.  Franklin  and  Wells Oakts.  X'oves,  house-mover,  les  State,  bet  Adams  and  Jackson
[died  September  13,  1854,  aged  40. Oaden,  Mahlon  Dickerson  (Arnold  &:  O.),  res  Ontario,  bet  Dearborn ^and  Wolcott,  jnobate  judge     [died,  Elmhurst.  Feb.  13,  1880,  a.  68i^. Ogden,  William  Butler  (O.  A:  Jones),  res  Ontario,  bet  Cass  and  Bush [died,  Aug.  3,  1877,  aged  72,  at  Boscobel — his  residence,  near  High Bridge,  on  the  Harlem  Biver,  X'ew  York.;  Chicago's  1st  mayor. Ogden  Jc  Jones,  land-agents,  Kinzie,  ])et  Wolcott  and  Dearborn  ave Oiin,  Henry  W.,  boarding-house,  Xorth  Water,  bet  Bush  and  Pine Oliver,  John  Alfred,  h()U^e  i)ainter,  Xorth  Water,  res  Michigan
[died  January  16,  1887,  aged  72. Olliver.  Bev.  AYarren,  pastor  Canal-st  Methodist  Church Osborn,  William,  shoe  dealer,  Jerome  Beeclier,  res  145  ^Madison
[died  Januarv  2,  1884,  a^ed  71. Ost,  William,  tailor,  Band>)l]ai,  bet  La^'Salle  and  Wells Otis,  Edwin,  clerk,  Seth  T.  Otis,  and  librarian  Young  Glen's  Assoc. Otis,  Seth  T.,  hardware,  stoves,  etc.,  120  Lake,  res  100  State
[died,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich.,  January  23,  1S82,  aged  71. r^tis,  Seth,  county  ])Oor-house  keeper       [died  April  27,  1847,  aged  70. Ottuway,  Charles,  family  grocer,  175  Lake,  res  same Otto,  August  F.,  watchmaker  and  jeweler,  173  Lake,  res  Wells
[died  January  4,  1890.  aged  80. Ou.^terhoudt,  Levi  ]\[.,  jnop.  Sauganasli,  ^Market,  100  ft  south  of  s.-e, cor  Lake  [died,  X'orwood  Park,  Xovcmber  15,  1881,  aged  7314.
Outhet,  J«din  C,  wagon  maker,  191  Bandolph,  res  244  ]\radison
[died  X^ovcmljcr  27,  1800,  aged  55.
Packard,  Bobert,  teamster,  res  Bandolph,  I)et  State  and  Deari)orn Paiie,  F'ranci>.  earpenter,  Stuj'Ljes  >k  Stu1;l)s,  bds  City  Befectory Page.  Peter,  mason  builder,  bd-^  William  L.  Cliurcli
•    [died  August  1,  1880,  aged  00. Page,  Thomas,  clerk,  Chifago  Post-Ofhce Paine.  James  Sparks,  sad'llei'  and  harness  maker,  13  Dearborn
[died,  Linn  Co..  Kan.T-Octobcr  22,  1800,  ag(  d  05-8-23, Pairic.  Seth,  dry  goods  mereliant  [died  June  0,  1872,  aged  50.
Paintor,  Jos.,  tailor,  Scott  lienedik,  res  Chapman's  bldg,  s.-w.  cor  AVells Paintor,  Mathi.as,  laborer,  res  Duteli  Settlement Palm,  John,  lal>orer,  re.s  Dutch  Settlement
82  '  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.       '  .      .     ;;:^
Palmer,  A.  H.,  ]iainter,  Xortli  Clark,  cor  Illinois,  res  same  '    ,;'(
Palmeter,  David,  res  Strath  Water
Pardee,  Tlieron,  commission  merchant,  North  Watei"  s.-e.  cor  Kiiizie
[died  August  19,  1888,  aged  ;-n.,. Parker,  John  (P.  <fc  Dodge),  res  113  Dearborn         [died         "       ]^'.H). Parker  &  Dodge,  auctioneers  and  commission  merchants,  6  Clark Parry,  Samuel  (Johnscui  ik  P.),  res  cor  Ohio  and  Cass Parsons,  Edward  (Clark,  Haines  it  Co.),Lds  Daniel  B.  Heartt
[  [died  January  18,  1875,  aged  Oo.
Parsons,  Samuel  ^[.,  book-keeper,  John  B.  F.  Russell,  bds  Farmers'
Exchange Pattee,  David,  j)rovisii)n  packer,  Sylvester  ]\[arsh Patten,  James,  carpenter,  res  alley  bet  AVells  and  Franklin Pattent,  ,  l^ds  ^Irs.  Green
Patterson.  John,  porter,  ^[ansion  House Patterson,  John  Gil)Son,  clerk,  Horace  Butler
[died,  Liberty villc.  111.,  October  8,  1887,  au(Ml  70. Patterson,  Robert  Wilson,  Presl)y.  minister,  res  State  near  Randolph
[died,  Evanston,  111.,  ]March  28,  1894,  ag-;d  7-. Peacoard,  Josei)h,  cooper,  res  X.  AVater,  l)et  AVolcott  and  Dearborn Peacock,  Elijah,  wat^-hmaker  and  jeweler,  195  Lake,  res  ]\Iadison  ne;ir Wells  '        [died  August  25,  1889,  aged  71.
Peacock,  Joseph  (P.  vt  Thatcher),  res  Madison,"] >et  Clark  and  AVt  lis
[died  May  13,  1880,  aged  72,>.^. Peacock  &  Thatcher,  gunsmiths,  1551^  Lake
Pearson,  George  TilVany,      [died.  S]ningtield.  111.,  June  21,  1802,  -a.  33. Pearson,  Parker  IL,  clerk,  Ruel  Aml)rose,  bds  same Pearsons,  Hiram,  speculator,  l)ds  Trejnont  House
[died,  Almeda,  Cal.,  August  11,  1868.  aged  57, Pease,  Simeon,  butcher,  Fulton  ALarket
Peck.  Azel,  cari)entcr  and  l)uilder,  res  S.  Clinton,  bet  Washington  and
:Madison,  alderman  3d  ward  [died,  Delavan,  Wis.,  (^)ct.  1,  1849,  ,1.  51.
Peck,  Charles  Edwin,  -addlcr  vt  harness  maker,  104  Lake,  res  LaS.tlle.
n.-w.  cor  Wa->hinuton Peck,  David,  inedi^-d  student.  Dr.  Daniel  Brainard.  Itds  Mrs.  Post Peck,  David,  bd<  AIr>.  Waggoner,  Lake,  west  r)f  AV^ells Peck,  Philii)  Feidinand  AVIieeler,  caiiitalist,  res  24S  Clark,  n.-w.  rny
Jackson  [died  Octol>cr  23.  1871,  aged  02  "4.'.
Peck,  Sheldon  AVliittlcscv  (P.  S:  Bovce),  l)ds  Cvrenius  lieers
'  [resides  at  Bcloit.  !!!. Perk  S:  Bovce,  linseed-oil  factoiy,  2^0-8  ^NTadison i'elton,  Elias  S.,  mason,  bds  Washington  Hall,  Noitli  Clark lY-nny,  Arthur  John.  I  nick  maker,  lids  .bJm  Penny
[died,  unmai-ricd,  August  12,  1819,  aged  20-(^8. Pennv,  George  AVilliam,  brick  mal«M-.  l)ds  John  Penny
[died  September  11.  IMOS.  aged  43-1  1-7. J-'ennv,  John,  biick  mak'er,  near  Xortli  Branch,  5th  AVard
[died  Auo-nst  11.  1H51,  aged  5S- 10-29. Penton,  David  Ru>m1,  clerk.  Dr.  John  Brinckeihotl".  bds  same
[died,  Melbourne,  Australia,  1854,  age<l  29.
;>  !<■
I
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  S^,
Penton,  Thomas  B..  clerk,  Clarke  &  Co.,  bds  Dr.  John  Brinckerlioft' Perioh^t,  Clemens,  gTocer,  22o  Lake,  res  same
Periohit,  F.  A.,  soap  and  candle  maker,  X.  Franklin  near  Indiana Perkins,  A.,  clerk,  Sherman  A:  Pitkin,  bds  Grin  Sherman Perkins,  Daniel  (P.  ct  Fenton),  bds  Chicago  Temperance  House Perkins  tfc  Fenton,  blacksmiths  and  waoon  makers,  141  Randolph Perrior,  |Villiam,  jailer.  Jail.  Randoljih,  s.-e.  cor  LaSalle
1  '  [died  before  May  4,  1S.V2„
Perry,  Abijah  S.,  barber,  ex-jnstice  of  peace,  res  Governm't  Reservation
[died  Se])teml)er  9,  1S49- Peteiinan,  John  (John  Hettinger  tt  Co.),  res  Xorth  Water Peterson,  George,  ca]>tain  schooner  S'f.  'Josejyh,  res  Canal,  bet  W.
AVashington  and  Madison Petitt,  AVilliam.  harness  maker.  C.  E.  Peck         i^died Petrie,  Phili]),  blacksmith,  Ithiaem  Taylor,  res  X.  Dearborn,  Oth  AVard
[died  Xoveml)er  80.  181)0.  aged  7<k Pfeifer,  Kasper,  shoemaker.  Thomas  Melvin.  bds  same Pfund,  John  (Pfund  ct  Co.),  res  14  Chirk      [died  Feb.  14,  1872,  a.  f;.~,. Pfund  it  Co.  (Frederick  AVeiss),  Ijread  and  cracker  bakers,  14  Claik Phelps.  Pallas,  attorney.  Dearborn,  res  cor  Dearl)orn  and  Wa^hinijion Philiji}),  Solomon,  mercliant.  I)d<  AVashington  Hall Phillips,  John,  wood  turner.  27  Franklin,  n.-e.  cor  Lake,  les  same
[died  December  11,  ISOJJ.  aged  7."',. PhiHii»s,  John,  jr.,  wood  turner,  bds  John  Phillips
[died  Xovcml)er  10,  1880,  aged  ."i:;. Phillips,  "William,  wood  turner,  bds  John  Philli])s
[died  3Iay  20,  187().  aged  ."34-^. Pierce,  Asahel.  blacksmith.  20  Market,  bet  Lake  and  Randoi])h.  res
AVest  Lake  [died  December  l:j,  1887.  aged  7.V..
Pierce  (Asahel t  6c  ^Vitbeck  (Henry),  blacksmiths,  Alarket.  bet  Luke
an<l  Randolph Pierce,  Jolm,  sailor,  res  Dearl)orn,  1st  Ward Pierce,  Royal.  coo})er Pierce.  Smith  Dyer.
Pike.  Daniel,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water  near  Franklin Pike,  jr.,  Thomas,  clerk,  Sherman  A:  Pitkin,  bds  ^Villiam   L.  Church Pinkerton,  Allan,  cooj)er,  res  Jackson  near  Pacific  ave
[died  July  1,  1884.  aged  r,:,. Pitkin.  Xathaniel  (Sherman  iV-  P.).  res  7  7  Clark  near  Randolph Pitney.  Aaron,  liomo-opathic  [iliysician,  100  Lake,  res  Kinzie  near  Clark
[died  January  7,  18()."),  aged  72. Pitt,  William,  sawyer.  West  Water,  bet  Lake  and  Jiandol])}) IMagL^e.  (jleorne,  shoemaker,  Xorth  Water,  res  same
[died  December  28.  1872.  aged  —. Poole.  Ja3])cr  AV..  saiU.i  |jdjed  January  24,  1888,  aged  7>>i2-
Pomeroy,  T.  S..  l»ds  City  Hotel Pope,  John,  butcher.  Kii  Reynolds,  res  State
Porter,  Au^rustine.  lumber     j  d.,  Oak  Park,  111.,  A|)r.  10,  1880,  a.  82  7-20. P<Mter,  llibl)ard  (Bristol  cVi  P.),  res  208  CUark,  n.-w.  cor  Adams
[died  Mav  80,  1870,  aycd  72..
77    t'xi
f   •11.7/      I:
84  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  .'  --
Post,  E.  J.,  clerk.  B..wen  .1^  Cole,  l^ds  Mrs.  Post  '    -'.    '       •
Post.  Frederick  L.,  l)ds  3Irs.  Post
Post.  Mrs.,  botirdiiiu-house,  79  Clark,  l)et  Randolph  and  Wasliiiifi:ton
Post-office,  oT  Clark,  near  Lake,  William  Stuart,  postmaster
Pottgieser.  Giesbert.  [died  August  17,  1^^S7.  aged  73.
Poussard.  Jose])li.  shipcari. enter,  res  North  Branch,  4th  Ward
Powell,  I.  X.,  editor  and  publisher  JS^ortli  western  Baptist,  124  Lake
Powell,  John  P..  cal)inet  maker,  John  B.  AVeir
Power.  Richard,  stonemason,  hds  Charles  ^McDonnell
Powless.  John,  shoemakei-,  Joseph  E.  Ware
Prairie  Farmer,  John  S.Wright,  prop..  John  S.  Wright.  J.  A.  Wight,
and  Jolm  Gage,  editors.  112  Lake Pniler,  Adam,  lal^orer.  res  Dutch  Settlement Pratt,  John,  ass't-foreman,  Foss  Bros.,  })laning-mill,  res  Market Pratt,  Menses  Griswold,  car2)enter,  res  \\.  Water,  cor  Kinzie,  4th  Ward
[died  Octol)er  20,  1887,  aged  83-4. Pratt,  Wm..  foreman  Foss  Bros.,  planing-mill,  res  Market  near  Rand. Prescott,  Eli  Sherljurne,  camil-agent,  33-7  Cass,  n.-e.  cor  Illinois
[died,"Waukegan.  January  3,  1879,  aged  69. Preston,  J(jhn  B.,  clerk,  Ogden  ct  Jones Price,  Abner,  bricklayer.  l)ds  Cornelius  Price Price,  Cornelius,  bricklayer.  [died,  Lilxuiyvillc,  111.
Price,  Cornelius,  jr.,  brick  layer,  Alson  S.  Sherman Price,  Jeremiah,  res  South  Water,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells,  member
board  of  health  [died  July  12,  1854,  aged  — .
Price,  John  Malov,  brickl.wer
[died,  Libertyvillc,  111..  January  4,  1879,  aged  64. Price.  William,  bricklayer.  "[died  December  31,  1884,  aged  63-2.
Price,  William,  sash  factory.  South  A\'ater,  west  of  Clark
[died.  Isthmus  of  Panama,  en  route  to  California,  1849,  aged  4-3. Prindiville,  Jolm,  sailor,  bds  3Iaurice  Prindiville Prindiville.  ^Maurice.  lal)orer,  res  Chicago  ave,  n.-w.  cor.  Wolcott Prindiville,  Redmond,  sailor,  bds  Maurice  Prindiville Prindiville,  Thos.  J.,  IkIs  ^laurice  Prindiville   [died  Jan.  18,  1870,  a.  38. Protine,  Francis,  coo])er,  res  X.  Clark,  1)et  Xorth  Water  and  Kinzie
Quarters,  W;dter,  Catholic  priest,  bds  114  ^lichigan  ave Quarters.  "William,  tir>t  CatlK^lic  l>isho|)  of  Chicago,  114  Michigan  ave. n.-w.  C(;r  Madison  [died  A|)ril  10,  1848,  aged  42.
Quick.  Jolin,  sh(;emaker,  Samuel. J.  Grannis
Raber,  Jolm,  harness  maker,  S.  B.  Cobl),  bds  same Kaber,  Philij),  laborer,  338  State,  0])p.  Congress
[died  January  27,  1865,  aged  71. Ransom,  J.  W.,  dry  goods  merchant,  res  179  Clark,  s.-e.  cor  Monroe
'.I-  b'H
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  \'  ,,H
Ihxmz,  H envy.  Idhovev.  res  ^UclugiVii.het  LaSalic  and  Wells
Iia})pee,  P.,  laborer,  res  Lake  Shore.  1st  Ward
Kaskupp,  John,  lalx-rer.  Silas  B.  Col)b
Kathltone,  Ward,  groceries,  fruits,  etc..  141  Lake       [died,  Geneva,  111.
Piiittle  vt  Co.  (Sam.  Rattle).  Francis,  boots,  shoes,  and  leather,  133  Lake
Ratiie,  Francis  (JX-  &  Co.),  [died  Aiii-ust  19,  1859.
Rattle,  Samuel  (I'.  R.  ^fc  Co. ).  bds  Tremont
Kavencraft,  William,  bds  Henry  Howard
liay,  Thomas,  mason,  res  South  Branch  near  Washington
Raymond  ^t  Co.,  Benjamin  W.,  staple  dry  goods  and  groceries,  81
South  Water,  s.-w.  cor  State,  office,  1::?2  Lake,  upstairs Raymond,  Benjamin  "Wright  (B.  W.  R.  6z  Co.),  res  120  Washington
[Chicago  s  3d  mavor.  died  A})ril  5,  1883,  aged  82. Raymond,  George  AVright, ^clerk,  B.  AV.  R.  it  Co.,  122  Lake
[died,  Barlield.  Ark.,  November  1,  1871,  aged  54. Reading-Room  (Y.  M.  A.),  37  Clark,  2d  story,  C.  R.  Larrabee,  librarian Receiver's  office,  U.-S.,  08  Lake,  upstairs,  Geo.  L.  Ward,  receiver Recorder's  office,  Court-IIouse,  s.-w.  cor  Clark  and  Randolph Reed,  Frederick,  porter,  City  Hotel
Reed.  Roljert,  mason,  res  Wells,  bet  Lake  and  Randolph Reed,  Stilman  O..  laborer,  bds  John  Davlin Reed.  AYilliam,  carpenter,  res  W.  Monroe,  l)et  Clinton  and  Jefferson
[died  January  0,  1801,  aged  83-8-15. Recs,  James  HoUim^shead,  survevor,  Oii'den  tt  Jones,  bds  ]Mrs.Haight
*[died  Se])tcmber  20,'  1880,  aged  67 1(. R'-es.  Thomas,  house  |)ainter,  Alex.  White
liegister's  office,  U.-S.,  92  Lake,  upstairs.  John  H.  Kinzie,  regnster Rehm,  Jacob,  laborer,  res  r.-e.  cor  Hiiisdale  and  Rush
[died  January  28,  1870,  aged  G9. Rehm,  Jacol),  jr.,  teamster,  res  Jacob  Rehm Reis,  Jacob  Nichola.-;,  harness  maker.  i>ds  175  State
rdied,  Frankfort,  Tenn.,  April  3,  1890,  aged  70. John  Mathias.  shoemaker,  1k3s  175  State     [d.  3Iay  8, 1884,  a.  62. John  Peter,  retired.  175  State John  Peter,  jr.,  shoemaker,  Samuel  .).  Grannis,  bds  175  State
[died  January  2,  1881,  aged  50. Xicholas.  water  ( arrier,  bds  175  State  [died  A]n-il  13,  1874,  a.  — . Peter,  water  carrier,  res  171  State        [d.  ]\Iarcli  2,  1870,  aged  54. RfT.d  T,  Daniel,  tailor,  res  Ohio,  bet  Cass  and  Rush ilevenuc  office,  38  Clark,  Seth  Johnson,  de])Uty-collector P^e-.v,  Xoniian  (R.  S:  liussell),  res  State Rew  i'v  Russell,  grocery  and  ball-alley,  77  South  Water Reynolds,  Eri.  butcher  and  packer.  South  Branch,  res  Dearborn
Xdied  April  15,  1851,  aged  — . iieynolds,  E.  G.,  clerk,  l^ds  145  Clark Ii»^.ynolds,  George  W.,  clerk,  ?>i  Reynolds
Jiiiines,  Henry.  car])ent(r,  deputy  sheriff,  police  consta])le,  res  46  LaSalle
[died  August  20,  1852,  aged  45. ^'i«  ^-,  Jo£e]>h,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  Western  Hotel
Reis.
IMs.
R'is.
Rei.,
Reis.
S6  CHICAGO    DIRECrORV,    1843.  \   ^
■'> Ricli.  Michael,  nmson.  west  of  Clark  and  south  of  First Richards,  John  James,  clerk.  Asliiey  Gilbert,  res  Mrs.  Cothn
[died.  Kankakee,  111..  January  29,  1891.  aged  (j-x Rider,  Eli  A.,  clerk,  Charles  L.  P.  Hooan  [went  to  Aurora.  111.
Rilev,  John,  laborer,  Michiuan.  ])ct  Rush  and  Pine Ritchie.  Alexander,  i)lacksmith.  Asahel  Pierce Rohb,  Georgf:  Augustus  (Foster  &  R.),  hds  John  B.  :Mitehell
[died.  Havana.  Cuba.  1857.  aged  — .
Robb.  Thomas  Pattrn,  clerk,  1)ds  John  B.  Mitchell
[died  near  Glenwood,  Cal..  April  19.  1895.  aged  G7. Roberts.  Alexander,  butcher,  res  X.  AVater.  bet  Dearborn  and  AVolcott
[died  September  3,  1876,  agtd  70. Roberts.  David  Lewis.  Chicago  Temperance  House,  17-19  LaSalle
[died.  Jctlerson,  111..  December  130,  1864,  aged  63. Roberts.  Henry  Lewis,  shoemaker,  South  Water,  res  North  Water Roberts,  James  S.,  chair  painter.  John  B.  AVeir Roberts.  Jolin  T..  drover,  res  Clark,  bet  AVashington  and  Aladison Robertson,  Cyrus  C,  clerk,  ILu'ace  II.  Yates Robertson,  David.  Sauganash  Hotel
l^)bertson,  James,  shipcarpenter,  res  cor  Xorth  AVater  and  Rush Robinson.  Alexander,  farmer,  res  South  Branch.  3d  AVard
[died  April  23,  1872,  aged  —. Robinson.  George,  printer,  Ellis  <k  Fergus Robinson.  James,  car|jenter.  res  AVest  Monroe.  3d  ward Rolnnson,  John,  housemover.  res  xAdams,  l)et  Clark  and  State Rcl>inson,  P.  P.,  bootmakei'.  139  Lake Rol)inson,  S.  S.,  grocer.  184  L:ike,  res  same Rochester.  James  IL.  commission  merchant
Rockwell,  James,  boardinir-housc,  Clark,  l)et  ^Vashington  and  M-idison Roden.  James,  lal)orer.  bds  Charles  AIcDonnell Ivoder,  John,  bl.ir-ksmith.  James  O.  num])hrey
Rodgers,  John,  forwaiding  and  storage,  Xorth  Water,  east  of  N.  State liofinot.  Peter  Francois Jiogers.  Edward  Kendall  (Horace  Norton  S:  Co.),  res  Indiana,  bet
Cass  and  Rush  [died.  Eastman.  Ga.,  3Iay  2,  1883,  aged  70.
Rogers.  George  A.,  book-keeper,  Horace  Norton  S:  Co. Rogers.  George  AV..  prop.  Chicauo  Hotel,  West  Lake,  n.-e.  cor  Canal
[died  February  4,  1867,  ag'-d  03. Rogers,  John,  lard-oil  maker,  res  North  AVater      [died  April  3.  1849. Rooncv,  ()..  laljorer.  res  South  Canal,  I)et  Lake  and  Randolph P.ooney,  William,  blacksmith.  [.'lied  Alay  5,  1885,  aged  71  ig.
Root,  .losiah  Sackett,  carjienter, res  Dearborn.  l>et  Madison  and  Alonroe (died.  Butlalo,  N.Y.,  April  28,  1884,  a-.  (1  — . Rose,  Freeman,  wa^ron-maker.  res  AV'^jJls,  het  Randolph  and  Washin-ton Rose,  John,  clerk,  Alurrav  S:  Brand Rose,  lin<sell
Ross.  George.  l)lack-ndth.  William  Otis  Snell
Rossetter,  A-her.  drv  go(.d<  and  groceries.  92  Lake,  bds  Cyprian  C. ■  Norton  '  [died  before  May  14,  1858,  aged  ~.
"'\l>lV.  Ij.u.  iiivljjn
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843..
V
Ro-siter,  Gilljeil.  clerk.  Xortoii  it  Case,  bcls  Cyprinn  C.  Norton Ro--iter,  Luther,  lumber  merchant,  res  Kewton  Rossiter
[died.  Lt.ke  Forest.  111.,  October  3,  1888,  aged  74-8-14. Ro>siter.  Xewton,  lunil'er  merchant,  otRce  S.  Water,  res  15  Franklin, vard.  west  side  of  Franklin,  bet  Lake  and  South  Water
[died  May  24,  1850,  aged  G2?l-5. Row.  Jonathan,  sawyer,  res  near  Nortli  Branch  ])ridge,  5th  Ward Rowlatt,  William.  I'.ethel  clergyman,  l)ds  Plenry  Smith Rowlatt,  Mrs.  William  A.,  teaclier  of  French,  bds  Henry  Smith Rowley,  Aldrich.  shoemaker,  res  ^larket Rowley,  Thomas  E.,  teamster,  Absolom  Funk
Rucker,  Edward  A.,  law  student,  H.  L.  Rucker  [d.  June  19,  1872,  a.  61. Rucker,  Henrv  L..  justice  of  the  ])eace,  41  Clark,  res  same
[died  January  7,  18G7,  aged  57-0-28. Rue,  John  Campbell,  c:irp,enter,  156  Clark,  res  same
[died,  Elgin,  HI.,  June  11,  1892,  aged  88. Rum-ev,  Geo.  Frederick,  clerk,  Newberry  A:  Dole,  bds  Geo.  W,  Dole
[died  June  17,  1881,  aged  G03^. Rum>cy.  Julian  Sidney,  clerk.  Newberry  S:  Dole,  rfs  Geo.  W.  Dole
'  1 18th  mayor,  died  April  20,  188G,  aged  G3-0-17. Ru<s.  John,  teamster  and  vet.  surgeon,  res  cor  S.  Clinton  and  Madison Ru-sell.  Chester  G.  (Rew  it  R.),  bds  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn Russell.  Francis  C.  bds  ^Irs.  Green
Russell,  Jacol>,  })ropnetor  City  Hotel.  58-GG  Clark,  n.-w.  cor  Randolph
[died  April  4,  18G0,  aged  GOi^. Ru-selb  Col.  John  Bcnj.  Frazicr,  land  and  insurance  agent,  notary,  38 Clark,  res  2G1  Indiana,  near  Wolcolt        [died  Jan.  3,  18G1,  aged  — . Russell,  Mailin,  sailor,  res  Wolcott,  bet  North  Wa*:er  and  Kinzic
[lost  in  Lake  Michigan,  November.  1845. Rutledge.  Thomas,  laborer,  res  West  Lake,  l»et  Water  and  Canal Ryan.  Edward,  labr)rcr.  rc>  Franklin,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington Ryan.  John,  boarding-h  >use,  42  South  Water Ryer.  George  (Geoigc  R.  6c  Co.),  l)ds  City  Hotel Kyer  it  Co.,  George,  merchant  tailors,  48  Clark Rver-on,  Josepli  Turner  (R.  it  Blaikie),  bds  Tremont  House
[died  March  0,  1883.  aged  70. Ryer-on  c^-  Blaikie,  iron,  nails,  etc.,  diy  goods  and  groceries,  74  Lake
■•allsbury,  T.  W.,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  South  Water  near  Clark '"^alton^tall,  Francis  *g!.  clerk,  Parker  it  Dodge,  res  Wm.W.  Saltonstall Salt')!!. tall,  Wni.,  lish  dealer,  res  \V.  Ma.dj.-on,  bet  Clinton  and  Jellerson
[died  August  13,  188G,  aged  773(. Saltoji^tall,  Wm.  Wanton,  assignee  in  bankruptcy,  res  238  IVladison
[died  March  18,  18G2,  aged  GO. SainjiKMis,  Benjamin,  cooper,  bds  Frederick  Sammons Siuniuons,  £.  VV.,  cooper,  res  Adams
l;^
SS  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.      ,      •     ■     •'    k  ^     .
Sammons.  Frederick,  cooper,  res  Canal,  bet  xVdanis  and  Jackson
[frozen  to  death  at  Calumet,  Decemljer,  1848. Sammons,  Joel,  cooppr.  Adams  near  Clark
Gammons,  Jo>^epli  II.,  cooper,  res  Canal,  bet  Adams  and  Jackson Samuel,  Willia.m,  laborer,  res  near  North  Branch  bridi^-e,  5tli  AVavd Sandusky, Michael,  chairmaker.  res  AVashiugt'n,  bet  AVells  and  Franklin Sanger,  James  Y(umg  (L.  P.  Sanger  ^fc  Co.),  bds  ]Mrs.  Green
[died  July  S,  18GT,  ao-ed  ."):Ji4^ Sanger,  Loreizo  P.  (L.  P.  S.  &  Co.).  [died  ]\rarch  23,  1875,^agod  — . Sanger,  Lucian  P.,  contractor,  [died,  Ottawa.  111.
Sanger  it  Co.  CJ.  Y.  Sanger),  Lorenzo  P.,  hats,  caps,  and  furs,  110  Lake Satterlee.  ]N[errit  Lawrence,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  South  Water,  bds Tremont  House  [died  January  27,  1894,  aged  "9.
Sauganash  Hotel,  east  side  Market,  north  of  alley,  s.-e.  cor  Lake,  Levi 31.  Ousterhou'lt.  prop.     [Th  •  Republican  Wigwam,  where  Lincoln was  nominated  in  1860,  occupied  its  site. Santer,  Charles  (Charles  &  Jacol)  S.),  res  212  Lake,  alderman  2d  ward [died.  Blue  Island,  111.,  May  18,  1877,  aged  CGi^. Sauter,  Jacob  (Charles  &  Jacob  S.),  res  212  Lake
[died  March  10,  1865,  aged  48. Sauter,  Charles  A:  Jacob,  boot  and  shoenuikers,  212  Lake Savage,  ^Maurice Sawver,  Nathaniel,  clerk,  Sidney  Sawyer
[died.  Lake  Forest,  111.,  November  18,  1800,  aged  67. Sawyer.  Sidnev,  drugs,  medicines,  groceries,  etc.,  124  Lake,  bds  City
Hotel  '  "  [died  July  12,  1894,  aoT'd  8:3.
lawyer.  Wm.  Henry,  butcher,  [died  May  7,  1888,  aged  06-10.
Scales,  Charles  Pich,  clerk,  Ward  R;ithbone,  bds  same Scammon,  Jonathan  Young  (S.  &  Judd),  reporter  su])reme  court,  res {»1  Michigan  ave  "  [died  March  17,  1890,  aged  771.3.
Scammon  &,  Judd,  attorneys,  128  Lake Schall,  Andre,  boarding-house  and  saloon,  207-9  Randol])h
[died  May  5,  1872,  aged  — . Schaller,  Andrew,  family  grocery,  209  Lake,  res  same
[died,  Elgin,  111.,  September  7,  1803,  aged  40  8-1. Schank,  Lewis  G.,  currier,  Johonnett,  Wells  S:  Co. Schenk.  Henry,  lal)orer,  res  Dutch  Settlement Schernerman,  Michael,  baker,  Pfund  6c  Co.
Schlatter.  Chnrles  L.,  U.-S.  government  agent,  res  Fort  Dearborn Schmidt.  3I;ithlHS.  car])enter,  res  Dutch  Settlement Schular,  M  dhias  IJacksmitli,  Ithraem  Taylor Schiittier,  Christian,  la]>orer.  res  Illinois,  bet  Pine  and  St.  Clair Schnttler,  Peter,  wagonmaker.  224  Randol}>h,  s.-e.  cor  Franklin,  res
Illinois,  bf't  Pine  and  St.  Clair  [died  January  16,  1865,  aued  53.
Scorgio.  William,  lumber  merchaFif,  204  Lake Scott,  James  Howie,  sashmaker,  s.-e.  cor  W.  ^Madison  and  Canal,  res
Jeflferson,  nr  12t]i    [died,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.,  Nov.  23,  1880,  a.  7G. Scott,  John,  carj)enter,  res  South  Canal,  3d  AVard
[died,  Oswego,  N.Y^,  1870,  agt  d  68.
^'.\
!  >  OJ.
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  ^      J   89
Scott,  Dr.  Robert,       [died,  Oswego,  N.Y.,  April  0,  18S2,  aged  67-9-2:?. Scott,  Stephen  J.      [died  en  route  to  California,  Sept.,  1852.  aged  — ;
buried  on  the  Peninsula;  his  wid.  died,  Xaperville,  111.,  Sej^t.,  IS.")!). Scott,  William,  shoemaker,  l)ds  Jacob  S.  Curtis Scougale,  A.,  wagonmaker,  near  cor  State  and  Lake Scorille,  Charles  Foot,
Scoville,  Hiram  Henry,  apprentice,  Scoville  &  Gates,  bds  H.  H.  Scoville Scoville,  Hiram  Huff  (S.  &  Gates),  res  s.  w.  cor  Randolph  and  "West
Water  [died  March  26,  1870.  aged  84.
Scoville,  Ives,  blacksmith.  Scoville  &  Gates,  bds  H.  H.  Scoville Scoville.  Jas.  Addison,  bookkeeper,  Scoville  &  Gates,  bds  H.  H.  Scoville Scoville,  William  H.,  machinist  [died  3Iay  24,  1884,  aged  (>1.
Scoville  &  Gates,  machinists,  millwrights,  blacksmiths,  and  founders,
s.-w.  cor  AVest  Washington  and  AVest  AYatcr Scranton.  Abner  R.,  with  X.  Scranton
[died.  Lake  Bluff,  111.,  August  5,  1885,  aged  oC Scranton,  Xoah,  block,  pump,  and  spar  maker,  Wolcott,  s.-e.  cor
Xorth  AYater  [died  April,  1860.
Scranton,  Xoah,  jr.,  with  X.  Scranton  [died  July  8,  1875,  aged  oS.
Scruder.  Alarcus,  tanner,  Gurnee  ct  A[atteson Sealey,  George,  irrocer,  South  AVater,  west  of  State Seaman,  jr.,  AYillett,  clerk,  Bracken  <^c  TuUer,  bds  Sauganash  Hotel Searles,  Samuel  V.,  machinist
Seatoii,  Israel,  carpenter,  AA'ashington,  bet  AA'ells  and  Franklin Secbor,  Christo])her,  agent  Kelley's  patent  pump,  Theron  Pardee's
warehouse Seeley,  Rufus  R.,  hats  and  caps,  225  Lake Seger,  Jose])h,  water  carrier,  res  Dutch  Settlement Sensor,  Jolin  AYashington  (Cruver  S:  S.),  res  s.-w.  cor  Xorth  Clark  and
Michigan  [died,  Hawkeye,  la.,  Xovember  27,  1885,  aged  78.
Sergeant,  S.  H.,  bartender,  Xew  York  House Serry,  Edward  P.,  blacksmith,  AYilliam  Otis  Snell,  res  Kinzie,  bet
Cass  and  Rusli Sexton,  Stephen,  carpenter,  res  Kinzie,  het  Cass  and  Rush
[died  April  7,  18C1,  aged  51. Seybold,  F.  E.,  Ijlacksrnith.  Randol])h  near  AVells Shaddle,  Miss  Ellen,  teacher,  120  Clark Shaddle.  Peter,  upholsterer,  45  Clark,  res  south  of  First
[died,  Evaiiston,  111.,  P'ebruary  1,  1883,  aged  84. ^h:ii)ley,  AForgan  L.,  ship-carpenter,  res  Governmoit  Reservation Sharer,  George,  t.ailor,  John  11.  llodgsrm,  res  A\"ells,  bet  AYashington
and  Madison Shaw,  Isaiah,  clerk.  Charles  Follansbce Shaw,  Jnh-'i  O.  (Chirkc  >k  Co.),  bds  City  Hotel Shaw,  Joseph,  carpenter,  res  cor  Jeffer^5n  and  West  Washington Shay,  Ji.lm.  lal^orer,  John  Dennis Shay,  Michael,  res  X.  AYells,  bet  Xorth  AYater  and  Kinzie
[died  -from  neglect,"  August  23,  1850. Shelby,  D.miel,  sailor  captain,  res  47  Adams    [died  Dec. '3, 1852,  a.  40.
90  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.
Sheldou,  C.  P..  clerk,  Philo  C.  Slieldou
Sheldon,  Philo  C,  groceries  and  provision-,  254  Lake,  junction  of  S. Water  and  Lake,  res  Franklin
Shepherd,  Hiram,  mason,  res  ^larket,  Ijet  Randolph  and  Washini^ton
Shepherd,  Rob't.  carpenter  and  Ijiiilder,  res  Cass,  Ijet  Indiana  and  Ohio
[died  Fei)ruary  4.  1872,  aged  04,2^.
Shc])herd,  Thomas  J.,  mason,  res  3Iarket
Sheru'old,  Thon  as,  house  and  sign  painter,  hds  H.  H.  Hiisted
[died  May  o,  1870,  aged  50.
Sheriif,  John,  hook-keeper,  J:is.  P.  AUeji.  cor  "\Y.  Canal  and  W.  AVater
Sherman,  Alson  Smith,  builder,  (Johonnett,  Wells  &  Co.),  res  AV.Wash- iugton  near  Clinton  [7th  mayor
Sherman,  Beni.  F.,  drv  goods  and  uToceries,  cor  Lake  and  Clark
[died,  Butlalo,  X.Y.,  April  19,  1885,  aged  70.
Sherman,  Ezra  Lewis  (Ballentine  it  S.),  bds  Citv  Hotel
[died  Riverside,  Cook  Co.,  111.,  Feb.  14,  1881,  aged  63.
Sherman,  Francis  Cornwall,  brickmaker  and  l)iulder,  res  Michigan  ave, county  commissioner    [5th  mayor,  died  November  7,  1870,  aged  6^).
Sherman,  1^'rancis  Trowbridge,  clerk,  H.  H.  Husted,  bds  F.  0.  Sherman
Sherman,  jr.,  Nathaniel,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  158  Lake,  res
LaSalle  near  Lake  [died  September  25,  1852,  aged  c!4i.^.
Sherman,  Oren  (S.  it  Pitkin),  res  79  Clark
Sherman,  Robert  D.,  agent,  Benj.  F.  Sherman,  res  Clark,  bet  Madison and  3Ionroe  «
Sherman,  Silas  Wooster,  [elected  sheriff  Cook  County  in  1834  and  1S3G died,  Chocolate  Bayou,  Texas,  August  15,  1852,  aged  Gl.
Sherman,  Wm.  George,  clerk,  Sherman  S:  Pitkin,  bds  Oren  Sherman
[died  September  7,  1867,  aged  411..
Sherman  [Oren"]  6:  Pitkin  [Nath'l],  dry  goods  and  groceries,  107  Lake
Sherry,  Thomas,  clerk,  Ira  B.  Eddy  <k  Bro.
[died,  bloomington.  111.,  October  17,  18G0.
Sherwood,  R.  W.,  teacher  of  penmanship,  ixls  3Irs.  Post
Sherwood,  Smith  Jones,  jeweler  and  watchmaker,  144  Lake,  res  La- Salle, 1.)et  Washington  and  Madi<ou
Shenvood,  jr.,  William,  jeweler.  Smith  J.  Sherwood,  bds  same
Sbinnatj^er,  Joseijh,  res  cor  N.  LaSalle  and  Ohio
Shitz,  Peter,  wagonmaker
Shoemaker,  Conrad,  .sailor,  res  near  N.  Water,  bet  Dearb.  and  AYolcott
Shoemaker,  Josejdi,  mason,  res  5th  W^ard
Short,  Jacob,  farmer,  res  near  Franklin  and  South  Water
Short,  ]\[r^,,  res  Washingtoii,  bet  LaSalle  and  Wells
Shrlgley,  John
Shubart  (Scott),  Benedict,  mercliant  tailor,  183  Lake,  res  same
[died  April  1,  1854,  agcl  40.
Shurr.  AVilliam  (Ilatcli  <Sc  S.),  res- South  Water  near  Dearborn
Sicar  6c  Co.,  groceries  and  boarding-house,  N.  Water  near  DearbrMTi
Sini'.ns.  Edwar:!,  l>utcher,  res  Jefferson       [died  Aug.  30,  1876,  a.  OOV;.
Siu)j)Son,  Andrew,  mason,  res  W.  Monroe,  bet  Clinton  and  Jeffer.-un
Simpson,  John,  mason,  res  S.  Canal,  bet  Adams  and  Jackson
[died  before  May  12,  1851-
*;.l  -M
ilA  .1
t.,  .1,.  .''•
CniCAGO    DIRECTORY,    1 843.  9 1
Sinclair,  Lewis  George,  pniuter,  47  LaSalle
[died,  St.  Charles,  111.,  Septeml)er  26,  18G().  aged  GO. Skinner,  Charles  (S.  ifc  Smith),  3[ausion  House Skinner.  ^lark  (Beaumont  ct  S.),  master-in-chancery,  res  Illinois,  l)et
Dearborn  and  Wolcott   [died.  Manchester.  X.H.,  Se])t.  10,  1S8T,  a.  74. Skinner  &  Smith.  ])roprietors  3taiision  House,  SG-S  Lake Slater,  J.  E..  warehouseman,  Xewl>crry  &  Dole
[murdered  by  Indians,  Hogue  Pdver.  Cal.,  August  37,  1851. Slat  on,  Johu  L.,  f.irmer.  res  ,  bet  AVells  and  Franklin
Sieunian.  AV.  H..  shoemaker,  Charles  S:  Jacob  Sauter Sloan,  Edward,  so:p-maker,  at  J.  Johnston's  [died  Oct.  81.  1889.  a.  85. Slocum.  Edward  L.,  druggist,  bds  Henry  B.  Clarke Smaie,  William,  carpenter,  res  W.  3tonroe,  3d  Ward Small,  William,  blacksmith,  Xortli  Water Smith.  Abial,  printer,  Democrat  office,  bds  Lake  Street  House
[died.  Lockport,  111.,  January  25,  1889,  aged  80. Smith.  Andrew,  luml)er  merchant,  Market  near  Lake,  res  Clark,  bet
Monroe  and  Adams  [died  October  28,  1851.
Smith.  Barnev,  butcher,  res  Michigan  ave,  rear  n.-w.  cor  of  Madison
[died  at  sea  off  Ireland  before  1860. Smith,  Benjamin,  tailor,  cor  Chtrk  and  Lake,  res  145  Clark
[died  January  10,  1891,  aged  76. Smith,  Charles  A.,  clerk,  Benjamin  F.  Sherman Smith,  Charles  Billings,  Ba])tist  clergyman,  Ijds  Mrs.  Merriam
[died,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.,  September  17,  1890.  aged  76. Smith,  Christie,  teamster,  cowherd,  res  Adams,  west  of  Clark
[died  October  14,  1893,  aged  85. Smi^^,  C.  D.,  clerk,  Gurdcm  S.  IIubl)ard,  res  Dearborn Smith,  David  Sheppard,  homcEOpathist,  office  Clark,  res  118  LaSalle
[died  April  29,  1891,  aged  75-0-9. Smith.  Elijah  (Henry  ^fc  Elijah  S.),  res  Ohio,  bet  Dearb.  and  Wolcott
[died  July  15,  1879,  aged  70. Smith,  George  (George  Smith  ^t  Co.),  bds  City  Hotel Smith  6:  Co.,  George,  bankers  and  exchange  brokers,  1  LaSalle Smith,  Henry  (Henry  &  Elijah  S.),  res  Ohio,  bet  Dearb.  and  Wolcott
[died  December  26,  1866,  aged  69. Smith,  Henry  Sz  Eh'jah.  dry  iioods  and  groceries,  146  Lake Smith,  Hiram  B.,  tinsmith,  Wm.  Wheeler  &:  Co.,  res  cor  Lake  and  Wells Smith.  James,  slioemaker,  David  Jay Smith,  James  A  yer,  clerk,  L,  P.  Sanger  S:  Co.,  res  Lake
[died  July  22,  1875,  aged  68. Smith.  John  E.,  clerk,  Benjamin  F.  Sherman Smith,  John  L.,  clerk,  Hum[)hreys  6z  Wiu.^low Smith.  John  M.,  hatter,  L,  P.  Sanger  &  Co.,  res  Clark Smith,  Johu  T„  auctioneer,  John  Bajtes,  jr.,  bds  same Smith,  Joseph  Flint  (Skinner  S^  S,),  5[ansion  House '^mith,  ,  shoemaker.  .John  B.  :Mitchell
vSndth,  Michael,  laborer,  we^t  of  Clark,  south  of  VanBureu Suiitb,  Michael,  harness  maker,  Silas  B,  Cobb
92  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.     ,S.      -  ..
-Smith,  ]Mis3  M.,  teaclier  pul)lir.  school  3,  district  4 Smith,  Xichoias,  laborer,  res  2d.  Ward
Smith,  Orson,  city  collector,  marshal,  street  commissioner,  and  health officer,  res  ISI  Waba.^h  ave  [died  January  29,  1863.  aged  Gl:?|
Smith,  Samuel  Lisle,  attorney  at  lav/,  2GS  3Iichiiran,  s.-w.  coi  Kii-h
[died  July  30,  1854.  a.oec)  3T Smith,  Samuel  P,,  clerk,  Guraee  ^t  Matteson,  bds  Mrs,  Hai'kdit  "
[died.  Bureau  Co,.  111.,  October  2,  1862.  a.o-ed  46 Smith,  Theophilus  AVa'sbington,  attorney  (S.  ct  Ballingall),  6  Clark
[died  May  6,  1846.  nge.l  60 Smith,  Tlionias,  teamster,  res  Wells,  l)et  Randolph  and  \Yasliiiv_;ton
[died  before  August  27,  1856,  ifged  — Smith,  Waldo  Wait,  clerk,  Samuel  J,  Surdam
[died.  Jefferson,  111..  :\[ay  25,  18S2.  aged  63 Smith,  William,  carpenter,  bds  Mrs,  Post  [died  1853
Smith  &  Bailino-all,  attorneys  at  law,  6  Clark Saell,  William  Otis,  i^lacksmith,  North  Water  near  Wolcott
[died  September  3,  1865,  agv-1  53 Snider,  Jaco]>.  currier,  Gurnee  Sc  Matteson Snook,  Sarauel,  carpenter,  res  Dearl)orn,  1st  Ward Snow,  George  AYashington,  lumber  merchant,  S.  Water,  res  344-6  State .  s.-w.  cor  Jackson  [died,  en  route  to  Philadeldhia,  at  Altoona
Pa.,  July  20,  1870,  aged  72-10-13. Snow,  Ira,  teamster Snowhook,  A\'illiam  Bergen  [Snow's  O'Hook],  irrocer,  10  Clark,  res
Kinzie,  6th  Ward  ^  [died  3Iay  5,  1882,  aged  80,
Soden,  Dr.  Wm.  Hill,  res  s.-v,'.  cor  LaSalle  and  Ontario
[died  July  12,  1850,  aged  41 Sofftje,  Cliarle-,  music  teacher,  bds  John  H.  Kinzie Sollitt,  John,  carpenter  and  Iniilder,  res  W.  Adams  near  Jeffen-on
[died  April  5,  1895,  aotd  Si -4-1';. Soper,  Palmer,  sawyer,  res  Wells,  bet  Randolph  and  Washington Soraghan,  John,  teamster,  res  ^lichigan,  bet  X,  Clark  and  LaSalle Southern  Hotel,  n.-w.  cor  State  and  12th.  G.  M.  Jackson,  prop. Spahn.  William,  shoemaker,  [died  April  — ,  1890.  aged  — ,
Spar,  Andrew,  stonemason,  res  near  Rush  and  Chicago  ave Spaulding,  C.,  carjjcnter,  res  AYells,  bet  Washington  and  Madir-on Spear,  Hugh  S.,  caterer,  Wasliington  Coffee  House,  89  Lake
[died,  Kenosha,  Wis.,  January  22,  1886.  agLMl  74. Speer,  Isaac,  watcli  and  clockmakei',  36  Deaiborn,  res  Monroe,  0]'i'.
Dearl>orn  [died  Se]jtember  20,  1879,  aged  6!(:l{.
Speer,  Thonia^,  tailor,  Elijah  Smith,  res  AYelb-,  bet  Yv^ashinLrton  and
Madison  [die.l  June  6,  1887,  aged  72.
Spence,  John  C,  hatter,  Israel  Cvrns  Stephens Spencer,  A.  P.,  jnintej",  lieJlcr  Covenard  office,  Randolph Sperry,  Anson,  law  student,  Beaumont  &  Skinner
[died,  Marengo,  111.,  August  24,  183!).  ag:'.!  65. Spring,  Giles  (S,  <k  Goodrich),  res  62  Adams  near  State
[died  May  14,  1851,  aged  AV;i^
r'.;«  i';
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.  93
Spring  ik  Goodriclj,  attorneys,  124  L.ike
Spry, "John,  laborer,  '  [died  February  5,  1801,  aged  G-2-0-22.
Squires.  [Nathan  (Fuller  <fe  S^),  res  N,  Water,  Ijet  Dearbojii  and  Wolcott St.  Palais,  James  Mary  Maurice  d'Hassac,  Catholic  priest,  res  ll-i  Michi- gan ave,  n.-w.  cor  Madison
[died,  St.  Mary's,  near  Tcrre  Hauie,  Ind.,  June  28,  187T,  aged  06. Staften,  Nichohis,  laborer,  res  Dutch  Settlement
Stai:^e-Office,  05  Lake.  s.-w.  cor  Dearl)orn,  Ephraim  C,  Stowell,  au'ent Stams,  TVilliain  F.,  barber.  Henry  Knight Stanton,  Charles  T,,  auctioneer,  bds  United  States  Hotel
;^killed  and  eaten  by  his  companions,  en  route  ta  California,  1849. Stanton,  Daniel  D.,  merchant,  Ashley  Gilbert,  bds  Mrs,  John  K.  Boyer [dicil.  3[Ystic.  Conn..  Ai)ril  23,  1887,  aged  71, Starkweather,  Charles  Robert,  assistant  postma-ter,  res  120  State
[died  August  27,  18G7,  aged  51 14. Stead,  Francis,  city  diTig  store.  7G  Lake  [absconded Stearns,  L,,  clerk,  L.  B,  Goodsell Stearns,  Marcu-^  '^Tuliius]  Cicero,  dry  goods  and  groceries.  136  Lake
'[suicide,  April  8,  1890,  aged  7354. Stearns,  VnUiam,  mate,  propeller  Independence Steel,  J.  H.,  res  We>t  Lake,  l^et  West  Water  and  Canal Steele,  Jonathan  William,  proprietor  City  Refectory,  17  Dearborn
[died  Xovern])er  13,  1881,  aged  74. Stein,  Charles  (Strau-el  ct  S.),  res  LaSalle  near  Lake
[died,  Blue  Island,  111.,  May  9,  1882,  aged  — . Stephen*,  Israel  Cyrus,  hats,  caps,  and  furs,  108  Lake,  bds
[died,  Henry,  111.,  September  G,  1854,  aged  — » Steth,  Joseph,  l>lacksmith,  Itliraem  Taylor,  bds  same Steven,  Christian  S  ,  tailor,  Clark,  north  of  Lake Stevens,  E,  C.
Stevens,  Geo.  E..  clerk.  A.  Garrett,  bds  Sauganash  [res  Rushford.  ]Minn. Stevens,  Geo,  F.,  warehouseman,  Bristol  >Sc  Porter,  bds  Wm.  Stevens Stevens,  George  G,,  clerk,  Stevens  &:  Carpenter
Steven=!,  Henry  (S,  &:  Carpenter),  bds  Sauganash      [res  Winona,  3Iinn. Steven-,  S„  tailor,  Clark,  4  doors  north  of  Lake
Stevens,  William,  late  lighthouse  keeper,  res  2  River,  U.S.  lightdiouse Stevens,  William  B..  blacksmith,  Randolph  near  Clark,  res  same Stevens  ct  Car])enter,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  IGG  Lake Stewart,  E,  A.,  watchmaker.  South  "Water,  l)et  Clark  and  Dearborn Stewart,  P^phraim  T.,  dry  ijoods  and  i^roceries.  85  Lake
[died  Decatur,  111.,  February  22,  1855.  ao-ed  — . Stewart,  Hart  L.,  dry  goods,  rev  State,  Ix't  Randolph  and  Washinoton
[died  .May  23,  1883,  aged  79  2,j\ Stoce,  Clemen?,  family  grocer.  14!)  Lake,  res  same
[died",  San  Francisco, Cal.,  October  18,  1881,  83d  year. Stockton.  John,  far{;enter,  I'cs  Illinois,  bet  Pine  and  St.  Clair Stone,  Horatio  Odei,  dry  iroods  and  groceries.  114  Lake,  res  Michigan, bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott  fdied  July  20,  1877,  aged  GG)^.
StonCj  Ira  (S.  ic  Doollttlc),  res  Columbian  House
94  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.   -   "^         '-o:-
S'-ow,  Alfred  (Dimmock  ifc  S.)  res  Riindolpli,  2d  ward Stov>-,  Ilcnvy  ^I,.  iron  foundry,  North  Canal,  store  11  Clark Stow,  "\Viili;un  H.,  iron  foundry.  North  Canal,  bds  Western  Hotel
[died  August  18,  1881,  aged  72. Stowell,  Ephraim  C,  clerk,  stage-coach  otMce,  05  Lake,  res  Adams
near  State Strail,  Isaac,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  Clark,  bet  S.  Water  and  Lake Strang,  G„  shoemaker,  res  West  Lake,  4th  AVard
Strausel,  Martin  (S.  ct  Stein),  res  40  LaSalle  [d.,  Elgin,  III.,  Jan.  G,  1880 Struusel  S:  Stein,  bootmakers.  40  LaSalle,  l»et  Lake  and  Randolph Strode,  James  M,,  attorney,  37  Clark,  res  84  Randolph
[died.  Crystal  Lake,  111., Suuirt.  Alexander,  clerk,  j^ost-ofiice,  bds  William  Stuart
[died,  Binghamton,  N.Y.,  November  1,  1884,  aged  QS. Stu;trt,  John  Jav,  })hYsician,  oO  Clark,  res  Indiana  near  Wolcott
[died  August  15,  1850,  aged  40. Stuart.  "^Villiam,  postmaster,  res  Ontario,  bet  Cass  and  Wolcott
[died,  Binghamton,  N.Y.,  June  30,  1878,  aged  07.}. Stubbs,  T.  R.,  carpenter Sturges,  B,  R.,  car})enter.  ]>ds  "Western  Hotel
Sturtevant,  Austin  Dwight,  school  teacher,  dist.  2,  bds  J.  M,  Underwood Sturtevant,  Noah,  painter,  John  I.  Dow,  res  ]Market
[died  July  20,  1802,  aged  42. Sullivan,  Anthony,  laborer,  res  North  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie Sullivan,  Eagene,  sailor,  [died  ]\Iay  10,  1885,  aged  73.
Sullivan,  Jeremiah  H.,  con:>table,  res  N.  Water,  bet  Clark  and  Dearb,
[died  January  19,  1855,  aged  71. Sullivan,  Martin,  laborer.  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard
Sullivan,  Michael,  laborer.  Gurdon  S.  Hub])ard  [d.  Oct.  7,  1871,  a.  82. Sullivan.  Patrick,  laborer.  North  AVater  near  Franklin Sulzer.  Conrad,  brewer  [died  December  24,  1873,  aged  — .
Summers,  James,  laborer,  res  Kinzie,  Ijct  Clark  and  Dearborn Sunriker.  Peter,  tailor,  P,  Ncwburgh
Surdam,  Diiane  (Cook  6c  S.),  res  American  Temperance  Hou.se Surdam,  Samuel  John.son.  tinware,  stoves,  etc.,  132  Lake
[died  September  10,  1893,  aged  70. Swain.  Philip,  tinsmith,  AVilliam  AVheeler Sweet,  Cliarles,  family  arocer.  North  Water  near  Wolcott Sweet,  (S. 'ct'D(jolittle),
Sweet  6c  Doolittle.  })rops.  Columbian  House,  11-3  Wells,  near  s.-e.  cor
South  AVater Swenser,  I-^yen,  lal)orer,  John  B.AVeir
Swift.  Elijah,  })awnbroker,  102  Lake,  res  ]:)carborn  near  Lake Swift,  Richiud  IvelloL^i.:",  i)awnbroker,  102  Lake,  res  195  AVabash  ave
[died,  Lawrence  County,  ]Mo.,  Se])tember  28,  1883,  aged  70. Svvinson,  Edwin,  laborer,  re-^  North  Water  near  Franklin
■M    V.  .IT)^!
T  \y-J
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.  .:"^  95
Tafr^i-^e.  Edward,  laborer,  lirst  st,  near  Michigan  uve
Tallev.  Alfred  Maurice,  ])rinter.  Democrat otYiQQ,  res  224  State,  s.w.  cor
QumcY  [died.  South  Bend,  Ind.,  Nov.  28,  1870,  aged  64j^^.
Tallmadge,  Samuel  Wires,  slioenuiker,  AV.  11.  Adams  &  Co.,  res  Clark
[died  Auuust  18,  18io.  aii'ed  82  2. Ta7)lin,  Michael  L,  [died  March  25,  1801,  aged  83.
Tarbox,  C.  F.,  clerk,  Orriligton  Lunt,  hds  John  B.  iMitchcll Tavlor.  Au^■u^tine  Deodat.  carpenter  and  builder,  res  Michigan  ave,
bet  Lakeland  Randolph  (died  March  31,  1891,  aged  04-11-8.
Taylor,  Charles,  merchant  tailor,  42  Clark,  res  Canal,  bet  AYasli.  and
5lad.,  alderman  8d  ward    Td.,  Indianola,  Tex.,  Sept.  28,  18GT.  a.  oof. Tav^or,  Charles  H.,  currier,  Johonnett,  Wells  &  Co. Taylor,  Daniel.  l)Oots  ;md  shoes,  120  Lake Taylor,  [Col.]  Ezra,  colfee-house,  South  Water,  west  of  Clark ■    *  [died  Oct.  2o,  1885,  aged  71.
Tavlor.  Francis  Horace,  tailor,  res  South  Canal,  8d  Ward
[died,  Xiles,  Mich.,  March  5,  1880,  aged  92. Taylor,  jr.,  Francis  H.,  tailor,  bds  Francis  H.  Taylor Taylor,  H.,  sad<lkr  and  harness  maker,  Silas  B.  Cobb Taylor.  Ithraem,  blacksmith,  141  Randolph,  res  Wells,  bet  Lake  and
Randolph  [died  Jime  7,  18G8,  aged  55.
Taylor,  John  O.,  clerk,  Gurnee  k  Matteson,  res  Mom'oe  near  Clark Taylor,  Matthias,  tailor.  181  Lake,  res  cor  Lake  and  Dearborn Tavlor.  Reuben,  teamster,  West  Lake  near  Randolph
[died  May  7,  1884,  aged  86. Taylor.  Solomon,  boot  and  shoemaker,  152^^  Lake,  res  West  Water,
bet  Randol])h  and  AVashiugton Taylor,  William  Hartt,  agent,  Dan.  Taylor,  120  Lake Te]n})le.  John  Tavlor,  ])hvsician,  218  Lake
[died,  St.  Louis,  :\[o.,  February  24,  1877,  aged  78, Teshner,  Charles,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  Charles  E.  Peck Tew,  George  C,  prof,  jihrenology,  res  rear  of  n.-w.  cor  Cass  and  Illinois Thatcher,  David  Cuiinini,diam  (Peacock  >S^  T.),  res  cor  Lake  and
Franklin  [died.  Thatcher,  Cook  Co.,  HI.,  r^Iarch  22,  ISGO,  aaed  55. Thirds,  Wm.,  cari)enter  and  builder,  S.  Water  [died  Jan.  12,  1870.  a.  60. Thomas,  Benj.  AValden,  clerk,  Loyd,  Blakesley  &  Co.,  bds  Alex.  Loyd Thomas,  Elihu  B.,  pi'inter,  Ellis  k  Fergus
[now  at  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  an  ]\LD. TLomas,  Gerhard  Henri  (H.  k  G.  H.),  res  X.  Dejtrborn  and  Division
[died,  Palatine,  HI.,  April  17,  1888,  aged  83f^. Thomas,  Henry  (H.  *.t  G.  H.),  les  X.  Dearix^rn  and  Division
[died  aged  50.
ThomrtS,  Henry  Jc  Gerhard  Henri,  botanical  and  vegeta])le  gardeners,
n.-e.  cor  Xorth  Dearborn  and  Division Thouias,  Hiram  J.,  printer,  IFes-fern- Cif ize/>  ofhce Thorn a.s,  Jerry  (T.  S:  AN'-heelock),  "Washington  Cotiee  House Thouias  &  Wheelock,  pro{)rietors  Washington  Coffee  House,  87  Lake Tlif)n;p.>OD,  George  C,  Stow's  foundry,  bds  Western  Hotel TiiOHipson,  Joseph,  caulker,  res  Adams,  bet  Clark  and  LaSalle
:&'^.  !:
g6  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.        ■     ■'     "  -"*
Thompson,  Leoii;ir«.l  W.,  carpenter,  res  3d  Ward,  south  of  Jackson Thompson,  Thos.  C,  shipcarpenter.  res  3IonroG,  I^et  Clark  and  LaSalle Thompson,  W.  G..  clerk,  Nelson  6c  Fred'k  Tuttlc,  bds  Tremout  House Thompson,  William,  laborer,  res  Xorth  Water,  west  of  N.  Clark Thrall,  E,  L,,  clerk,  Charles  Walker  &  Co. Throop,  Amos  Gager,  lumber  merchant,  cor  Washington  and  Market
[died,  Pasadena,  Cal.,  March  22,  1894,  aged  82. Tiernan.  Hugh,  waiter,  Mansion  House Tilden,  Joel,  bds  3Irs.  Luke  Lambert Tillotson,  Humphrey  A;  Co.  (B,  F.  Hadduck.  agent),  stage-coacli  ])ro-
prietors,  43  Deorl)orn Timonev,  Patrick,  brewer,  James  Carney  £^
Tingley,  Michael,  teamster,  Alson  S.  !Sherman
Tiukham,  Edward  Hslay,  teller,  George  Smith  i.'e  Co.,  bds  City  Hotel
[died  December  2.  1873. Tinkham,  Richard  H.,  salesman,  Willis  King,  bds  Washington  Ij'all Tisdel,  Guttorm  Rolandson,  laborer
[died,  Lincoln,  Winneshiek  Co.,  Iowa,  Fe]>.  24,  1885,  aged  78. Todd,  Lewis  H.',  carpenter.  Cruver  &  Senser
Toner,  John,  [died  July  18,  1885,  aged  80.
Toohy,  Dennis,  laborer, 'res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wokott Towner,  Xorman  Kellogg',  clerk,  Lallentine  <t  Sherman. Townsend,  E.  H.,  clerk,  Benjamin  F.  Sherman Tracy,  Elisha  Winsiow,  attorney,  123  Lake,  bds  Lake  House
[died,  Hampshire,  Kane  Co.,  February  6.  1800. Tremont  House,  s.-e.  cor  Lake  and  Dearborn.  Iru  Couch,  prop. Trii^p,  [Dr.]  Robinson,  carpenter,  res  119  Clark Trucsdell,  Georire  W.,  clothier,  res  Cass,  bet  Illinois  and  Indiana Tucker,  Henry,  book-keeper  [died  Septem1)er  21,  1871,  aged  5(3,
Tucker,  Philo,  stage  driver,  Frink,  Walker  6:  Co.
Tucker,  Thomas  E.,  coo])er,  149  S.  Water,  res  3Iadison,  end  of  Franl^lin Tuckerman,  Lucius  f Norton  S:  T.), Tuckerman  tV  Co.  (Geo.  M.  Iliggiiison),  lumlier.  successors  to  Noj'ton
ct  Tuckerman Tuley,  .Alurrav  ITovd,  law-student,  bds  Rich.  J.  Hamilton Tuller,  AVilliiun  G."" (Bracken  6:  T.),  l^ds  Sauganash  Hotel Tupper,  Chester,  housemover,  res  88  Washiniiton
[died,  Brooklin,  Almeda  Co.,  Cab,  Jan.  4,  1801,  aged  04. Turner.  Charles  (R.  L.  6c  C.  turner),  res  Wolcott Turner,  John  (J.  6c  L.  T.),  res  Wolcott,  n.-w.  cor  Kinzie
[die<l  February  17,  1892,  aged  :'^-l-l. Turner,  Jolin  Bice,  contractor,  b'ds  Tremont  House
[died  Fcl)ruary  20,  1871,  ag^-^i  72. Turner,  Joljn  6c  LeiLditon,  livery  stable,  10  Wolcott  near  Xorth  ^Vater Turner,  John  -AIcLeod,  capt.  pro[;eirer  Indejjendence,  res  Franklin
[died  Xoyem]>er  27,  1884,  a-ed  77. Turner,  Leighton  (J.  6c  L.  Turner),  res  Vv'olcott  near  Kinzie
[died,  Evanston,  111.,  Febiuary  11,  1895,  a^cd  80. Turner,  Robert  Leigh  (R.  L.  6c  C),  res  3  2  Xorth  State,  near  Kinzie
I
CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1S43.  97
Tuniev.  Pv.  L.  i.'v:  C,  wheelwrights,  4  and  G  "Wolcott  near  Isorth  AVater
Turner,  Vohititine  C,  bcls  J.  B.  Turner
Turner.  William,  butcher,  Sylvester  ]Marsb,  res  28  Xorth  State
[died  suddenly,  en  route  to  ^IcIIenry  Co.,  111.,  May  4,  1875,  age  68. Tuttie,  Frederick  (X.  ^  F.  T.),  bds  Amer.  Temp.  House
[died  Xoveniber  10,  1800,  aged  82. Tuttie.  Lucius  Griswold,  clerk,  post-office,  bds  Mrs.  Green
[died  July  5,  1879,  aged  56. Tuttie.  Nelson  (X.  d'  F.).  bds  Tremont  House
[died  April  21,  1877,  aged  63. Tuttie.  X.  ct  F.,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  68  Lake Tvlei-*  Elmer,  drajDcr  aud  tailor,  s.-w.  cor  Lake  and  State
[died  Fel»ruary  11,  1877,  aged  63 1.^'-
Underhilb  E.  K..  wagon  maker,  Perkins  &:  Fcuton
Underwood,  John  ^Milton,  luml^er,  cor  Lake  and  W.  Water,  res  Canal, bet  Wash,  and  Madison    [died,  Danvers,  :\Iass.,  Feb.  16,  1888,  a.  76.
United-States  Hotel,  n.-w.  corner  W.  Water  and  W.  Randolph,  John Murphy,  prop.
Updike,  Peter  Lewis,  car|)enter  and  builder,  res  and  shop,  104  Ran- dolph [died,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  December  19,  1850,  aged  45 >2.
Yandercook,  Charles  Rauey.  clerk,  Botsford  6c  Beers,  bds  City  Hotel Vaudreuzer,  E.,  Eagle  Saloon.  10  Dearborn Vaugaasbeck,  T.  L.,  clerk,  Horatio  O.  Stone Vanosdel,  Jesse  Redifer,  carpenter,  John  M.  Vanosdel
[died  3Iay  20;  1887,  aged  60. Vanosdel,  John  Mills,  carpenter  (Granger  6c  V.),  res  Indiana,  bet  X.
Dearborn  and  Wolcott  [died  Dcc<-mber  21,  1801,  aged  80>;<.
Vanosdel,  AMlliam  C,  car]>euter,  reS  X''.  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie
[died  December  17,  1867,  aged  53. Vansickle,  James  IL,  tailor,  Scott  Bencdik
Vanvlack,  Ei^bert  B.,  carjjentcr,  res  Wells,  bet  Randolph  and  Wash'gton Vanwattenwylle,  C.  A.  F.,  ]>hysician,  210  Lake,  res  same Vaughn.  Edward,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  HulJxird Velvershet,  Irton,  cabinet  maker,  Ist.AVard Vette,  John  Diedrich,  blacksmith,  M.  Mooney,  bds  same
[resides  Ottawa,  111. Vial,  Samuel,  laborer,  Sylvester  ^Nlarsh-,
Vincent,  Aiken  (Grilhn  cc  V.),  res  Randol})li,  bet  Dearborn  and  State
[died  Octoljer  11,  1881,  aged  63.
H
9S  CHICAGO    DIRECTORY,    1843.  >.-'J:
Waddingtou.  John,  laborer.  Gurnee  6c  ^Matteson
Wadhams.  Scth,  elcrk.  Hyerson  vfc  Blaikie,  bds  Tremont  House
[died.  San  Diego,  Cal.,  Fe])ruary  (3,  1888.  a.gt.Ml  To. Wadsworth,  Elisba  Strong  (E.  S.  &  J.),  res  80  AVashington
[died.  Clifton  Springs,  X.Y.,  Novcm])er  25,  1890,  aged  <7i^' Wadswortb,  Julius  (E.  S.  &  J^),  bds  City  Hotel
[died,  :Middletown,  Conn.,  May  28,  1887.  ag'.-d  74. Wadswortlj,  Elisha  S.  it  Julius,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  103  Lake "Wago-oncr,  Harmon,  carriage  painter,  res  ]\[icliigan,  l)et  Dearljorn  and
Wolcott AVagner,  ^[rs.  Susan,  res  cor  AVells  and  Randolph
Walil,  Frederick,  clergyman,  German  Evangelical  Cliurch,  "Wabash  are AVait,  John,  blacksmith,  H.  Chapman,  I)ds  Xew  York  House Wait.  George  Washington,  laborer,  Ephraim  A.  Stewart Waldie,  William,  carpenter.  Xorth  Water  near  Franklin AValdron,  Hiram,  wa^on  maker.  William  H.  Howard Walker,  Almon  (Charles  Walker  ct.  Co.)        [died  Feb.  23,  1854,  a.  4G. Walker,  Amos  E.,  watchmaker  [died  Aug.  7,  18SG,  ai;ed  (17  4.
AValker,  Charles  ( C.  W.  &  Co.),  [died  June  28,  18G0,  aged   {)1}<^.
Walker.  Curran  (Friuk,  Walker  ct  Co.),     [died  Nov.  21,  1802,  a.  .11 14. AValker,  Doliver,  saddler  and  harness  maker,  70  Lake,  res  State  nr  L;ike
[died  May  12,,  1802,  agod  _. Walker  S:  Co.,  Charles,  dry  goods,  groceries,  leather,  etc.,  00  S.  Water Walker,  Martin  Otis  (Frink,  W.  ScCo.),  res  07  State,  n.-e.  cor  Wasli-
iugton  [died  May  2S,  1874,  aged  65.
Walker,  Samuel  Bent,  dry  itoods  and  groceries.  148  Lake,  res  west  side
Wabash  ave,  l)et  Madison  and  Alonroe   [died  Feb,  26,  1887.  aged  80. Vv'alker,  William  Frederick,  rector  St.  James"  Ciiurch,  l^ds  City  Hotel Wallace,  Edward  Q.,  carpenter.  I)ds  Horatio  X.  Cooke Walter,  Ethan,  merchant,  res  41  ^lonroe,  east  of  State
[d.  July  13,  1854,  a.  51 ;  d.,  W.  Xorthticld.  Ilk,  Aug.  8,  1807.  ;<.  04. Walter,  Casper,  urocer,  Clark,  bet  Lake  and  South  Watej-,  res  same Walter,  Joel  Clarke  (Horace  Norton  S:  Co.).  l)ds  Ethan  AV^idter
[died  March  14,  1801.  agrd  80. AValter  it  Keilmm.  tailoi's,  Clark Walters,  .  clerk,  Thomas  Church
Walton,  Xelson  C,  merchant,  Soutli  Water,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Dcarhorn
and  Wolcott  [died,  California,
Walton,  J.  W..  dry  goods  and  groceries,  South  \S''ater Wandall,  Jolm,  baker,  res  State Ward,  B.  C,  clerk,  Aloseley  .t  McCord Ward,  'Sirs.  Bernard  [nee  Bath  H.  Marshall!,  Chicago  ave,  n.  of  and
near  North-Branch  bridge Ward,  Ctco.  L..  receiver  U.  S.  land-<4Kce,  08i<  Lake,  bds  City  Hotel
(died'  188S,  aged  — .
\N'ar.l,  Hugli,  mason  [died  January  30,  1850.  aged  — .
AVard,  James,  mi'son,  res  West  Uandol[)h,  bet  Peoria  and  Saniiamoii
[died  July  0,  bSSl,  aged  07. Ward,  James  31.,  harness  maker,  Denuison  Horton
.,..1,:7/
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1 843.  .  99
Ware,  Joseph  E.,  l)oot  and  slioemnker,  40  Clark
AVariner,  Wells,  clevk,  John  Gage,  rlour  store
Warner,  George,  blacksmith,  res  Wolcott,  bet  N.  Water  and  Kinzie
Warner,  Herman,  dry  goods  and  oroceries,  cor  Lake  and  Wells
Warner,  Mrs.  3Iarv  E.,  teacher  piilJic  school  2,  district  4,  Ixisement
St.  James'  Episf:'Opal  Church.  o'2  Cass Warner,  Samuel  3[.,  carpenter,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Cass  and  Rush Warner,  Seth  Porter,  blacksmith.  42  Randolph  near  State
[died  June  12,  1892,  aged  si.., Warner.  Spencer,  car2)enter,  s.-vr.  cor  AVabash  avc  and  A<lams
[died  January  1,  1882,  aged  ^,0. Warner,  Wm.  S.,  fanning-mill  maker,  N.  Canal,  bet  W.  Lake  and  Water Warren,  ,  shoemaker,  bds  Henry  Howard
AVarring,  Elias,  teamster,  res  bet  AVeils  and  Franklin AVarrington,  Henry,  machinist,  Scoville  &  Gates,  res  cor  Jelfer.  &  3[ad. AVashington  Coffee-Hoiise.  87  Lake.  Thomas  &  AA'hcelock  ( Chas. ).  prt^ps. AVashington  Hall,  s.-e.cor  X.  Clark  and  X.  AA'atcr,  John  Anderson,  prep. AVaters,  Benjamin,  carpenter,  179  AVabash  ave
[died.  Palatine,  111..  ALiy  27,  1881,  aged  07. AA'atson,  Alanson,  carpenter  and  builder,  rts  AV.  Adams,  l^et  Canal  and
Clinton  [died  April  29,  1879,  aged  Hi'il.
AVatson.  Elias  Doughty,  teamster.  [died  April  1,  1883,  aged  GJ/^-
AVatson,  Nathan  AVliitney,  mason  i)uilder,  .j4th  and  East-End  ave
[died  September  17,  1^49,  aged  58-0- j  2. AVayman,  James  B.,  jiainter,  res  5G  Franklin,  south  of  Lake AVayman,  Samuel,  ])ainter,  ;died  Alarch  2o,  1891,  Jigcd  79-7-24.
AVavman  AVilliam,  wa^on  maker,  2-)o  K;mdol])h
[died  April  28,  1892.  aged  74-1  •)-»>. AVaughoj),  John  AVcsley,  tailor,  Benjamin  Smith,  bds  James  Rockwell AVeber,  Henry,  teamster,  res  Dutcli  Settlement AVeber,  Ignace,  clerk,  John  B,  Busch,  18  Clark AVelibter,  Hugh.  car])enter,  res  Clark,  1st  ward
Webster,  [Gen.;  Jose])h  Dana,  ca{jt:(in  U.-S.  armv,  bds  Airs.  S.  Joh;ison
[died  AFareh  12,  187fi,  aged  <;4V>. AVebstcr,  Thomas.  carj)enter,  res  State  near  Jackson Weeks.  John,  chemist,  res  20732  Lake AVeeks.  John  S.,  brickma.kcr,  ^\^K)d  6c  Ogden
AVehrli,  Rudolph,  butcher  jdied  Sept.  1.'},  1889,  aged  7(i:'4.
AVcir,  John  Brinklev,  cabinet  maker,  18G  Lake,  res  same
[died.  Xew  York,  Ala.v  11.  1874,  aged  n:J. AVeiss,  Fred'k  (John  Pfund  iSc  Co.),  res  Kinzie,  l^et  LaSalle  and^AVells AVcich,  John,  res  south  of  Jackson,  1st  ward
AYelch,  TliOJn.i.s,  laborer  [died  February  11.  1891,  aged  Tt).
AVelch,  William,  laborer,  res  N,  Clark,J)Ct  Xorth  Water  and  Kinzie AVeller,  George,  butclicr,  res  north  of  Dutch  Settlement Weller,  George,  teamster,  res  Dutch  Settlement \Veller,  John,  teamster,  res  Dutch  Settlement
[died  September,  1890,  aged  7tJ-ll. Weller,  John  J.,  res  north  of  Dutch  Settlement,  Hiram  Pearsons'  house
ICO  CHICAGO    DIRFXTORV,    1843.  -      ;         •'     ,
Welles,  Henrv  AVoolscv,  aa't,  Farmers"  S:  Mechanics'  Bank  of  Detroit, 122  Lake,  Ms  City  Hotel  [d..  Aim  Arbor,  Mich.,  Sept.  21,  1.8(30,  a.  42.
AVells,  Andrew  S.  (johonnett,  W.  <t  Co.),  res  Randolph,  bet  LaSallc
-     andAVells
Wells,  Elisha,  carpenter,  cor  AYolcott  and  Kinzie,  res  Illinois
"Wells,  Henry  GouM,  clerk,  Wm.  Wheeler  ^t  Co.,  res  Lake,  bet  Frank- lin and  Market  [died  Decenil)er  2,  1876,  agt^i  05.
Wentworth,  Geo. "^Vallinorord,  M.D.,  ;issist.  editor  Chicago  Democrai, bds  United  States  Hotel  [died  Au^-ust  14.  1850.  aged  30.
Wentworth;  John,  editor,  prop.,  and  publisher  Chicago  Democrat, nicinber  of  congress,  107  Lake,  od  floor,  ])ds  City  Hotel
fieth  mayor,  died.  Sherman  House,  October  16.  1888,  aged  7?.i.<.
Wescott,  ^     OV".  tt  Steele),  bds  Western  Colfte  House
Wescott  d:  Steele,  Western  Cotiee  House,  s.-w.  cor  Dear})orn  and  113 Soutli  ^^'ate^
Wesencraft,  Charles,  carpenter  and  wagon  maker,  cor  S.  Clinton  and W.  Monroe  "[died  March  28,  1855,  agud  63.
Wesencraft,  William,  painter,  police  constable,  cor  S.  Clinton  and  AY. Monroe  [died  xVpril  22,  1862,  aged  47.
Western  Hotel,  s.-e.  cor  W.  Randolph  and  Canal,  Edward  M.  Gregory,
})rop. :  [torn  down,  ]V!ay,  1889 Western  Citizen,  124  Lake,  Z.  Eastman  and  Asa  B.  Brown,  editors
AVestern  Coftee-House,  s.-w.  cor  S.  Water  and  Dearborn,  Wescott  <fe Steele,  props.
Wheeler,  Andrew  Beach,  tobacconist  and  cigrirmaker,  Dearborn  nr  Lake
[died  July  2,  1874,  aged  68.
A\  heeler,  John  E.,  ]>rinter,  Ellis  k  Feri^us
Wheeler,  William  (William  Wheeler  A:  Co.),  res  147  Lake
[died  November  10,  1878,  agvd  69.
Wiieelcr,  William,  boot  and  shoemaker,  Clark  near  n.-w.  cor  Lake
Wheeler  ^  Co.  [Edward  Jackson,  Toronto,  Canada],  William,  hard- ware, tinsmith,  stoves,  145  Lake
"Wheelock,  Charles  (Thomas  ^  W.),  Washington  CotY.  Ho.,  res  77  Lake
White,  Alex.,  house  and  sign  j)ainler,  165  Lake,  res  83  Wells
[died.  Lake  Forest,  EL,  March  18,  1872,  aged  57.
White,  "Black  Georire,*"  city-cryer
White,  Cliristo}>her,  hostler,  Turners'  livery  stable
Wliite,  Isaac,  butcher,- Eri  Reynolds
Wliite,  Marcus  L..  grocery.  (Hamilton  <Sc  W.)  ;
White.  >Hchacl.  coachman.  J.  B.  F.  Russell
"^N'hite,  Patrick,  laborer,  res  Randol})h
Whitimr,  J.  Tallman  f  Whitinir,  ^iaoill  k  Co.),  ],ds  Wm.  L.  Whiting
[died,  Detroit,  Mich..  February  22,  1893,  aged  73.
WhitinL^  William  L.  (Whiting,  Magill  Sz,  Co.),  res  Ontario,  bet  Cass and  Rusli  " "     [died  August  17,  1850,  aged  55.
Whiting,  Magill  k  Co.,  forwarding  and  commission  merchants,  Xorth Water,  cor  Kinzie
Whitlork,  Thomas,  i>oots  and  shoes,  104  Lake,  res  n.-e.  cor  Wells  and Madison  [died  October  13,  1853,  aged  53.
CPIICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1843.  '•  lOI
TTlutmarsh.  Thomas  CraDiner,  compositor,  Western  Citizen^  124  Lake -     [died,  Hyde  Park,  Octo].)er  10,  1885,  aged  03. Whitmore,  Jacob,  printer,  Western  Citizen,  res  State TTicker,  Charles  Giistavus,  (Charles  G.  Wicker  &  Co.),  l)ds  Tremont
[died.  Tallahassee,  Fla.,  December  m,  I88D,  aged  m%, Wicker,  Joel  Hoxie  (Charles  G.  Wicker  &  Co.),  res  Dearborn,  l»et Washinuton  and  ^ladison
died,  St.  Joseph,  ^dich.,  April  21,  1888,  aged  78. Wicker  &  Co.,  C.  G.,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  94  Lake Wiggins,  William,  car])ent'er,  res  Xorth  Water,  bet  Wolcott  and  Kinzie Wiffht,  (Rev.)  Jav  Ambrose,  assistant-editor  Prairie  Farmer,  Ijds
Mrs.  John  Wright  [died,  Bay  City,  Tdich.,  Isov.  12,  1889.  a.  78.
Wight,  Sainn,  shoemaker,  res  Kinzie,  bet  Cass  and  Rush Wilcox,  Aaron  S.,  dentist,
Wilcox.  Cvrus  S.,  carpenter,  P.  L.  Updike,  [j.  Apr.  22,  1890.  a.  732^. Wilcox.  Erastns,  caqienter,  [d..  Highland  Park,  111.,  Apr.  24,  1890,  a.  91. Wilcox,  Franklin,  res  E.  Wilcox  [d.,  Jetlerson  Barracks,  3Io.,  1849,  a.  — . Wilcox,  Sextus  X.,  luml)er  nicrchant,  res  E.  A\'ilcox
[drowned  in  Lake  Su])erior,  June  15,  1881,  aged  55. Wilcox,  Theodore  B.,  book-kee})er.  res  E.  Wilcox Wild,  Josc])h.  carf)euter,  res  cor  ^\'est  Monroe  and  Desjdaines Wilder,  Alden  G.,  teacher  public  school  1,  dis'trict  4
[died  December  13,  1871,  aged  — . Vrilder,  Benjamin,  contractor,  Clark  near  and  south  of  Twelfth
[died,  Rockford.  111.,  March  13,  1877,  aged  82. Wilder,  .John,  clerk,  res  State
AVilder,  Nathaniel  Patten,  clerk,  John  KinL^  jr.,  bds  Mrs.  Green Wiliard,  Aloiizo  Joseph,  general  utility,  City  Refectory,  17  Dear])orn AVillard,  Elisha  Wheeler,  clerkU.-S.  receiver's  oliice, res  90  Michigan  ave Wiliard.  Dr.  Silvester,     [died,  Auburn,  N.Y.,  :Mch.  12,  1886,  aged  88. "W'illcmin,  Josei)h,  teamster,  res  n.-w.  cor  Green  Bay  and  Hinsdale
[died.  Alina])ee,  Wis..  February  8,  1885,  aged  84, Williams,  Charles,  cooper,  Xortli  ^Vater,  bet  Dearborn  and  Wolcott "Williams,  Charles,  laborer,  res  West  Water,  bet  Canal  and  Clinton AVilliams,  Eli  B.,  jnerchant,  res  Washington,  net  State  and  Dear1)orn
[died.  Paris,  France,  .Alarch  24,  1881,  83d  year: Williams,  [Judur'l  Erastus  Smith,  law-student,  Butterlleld  &  Collins
[died  February  24,  1884,  aged  (yd. Williams,  John  C.,  clerk,  Benjamin  W.  Raymond,  South  Water
[died  December  12,  18G5,  aged  — . Willis,  .Tase])h,  blacksmith,  Vrilliam  Otis  Snell Willis,  Samnol,  hatter,  res  Clark,  1st  ward 'Wills,  Solomon,  Circuit  Court  clerk's  office,  res  187  State Wilson,  jr.,  Adam,  blacksmith.  South  Branch.  W.  Jackson,  3d  ward "Wilson,  ]^>enjandn,  laborer,  Gurdon  S.  Hubbard Wilson,  l)ani('l  T..  cook,  Samuel  Jackson,  res  Fort  T)earl)orn Wilson,  John  Lii.-,h,  merchant,  171  Lake,  bds  Tremont  Ibmse
[died  April   13,  1888,  aged  75i. Wilson,  John  C,  carpenter,  res  Xorth  AV'ater  near  Franklin
102  CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1843.  .    .     ,' -
"Wilson,  Joseph,  milk  dealer,  res  "West  Lake  near  Union  Park
[died  March  10,  1893,  aged  SS. "Wilson,  James  D.,  bds  Mrs.  Seth  Johnson       [died  June  8,  ISGo,  a.  60. "Wilson,  ]Matthew,  shipcarpenter,  res  Washing t'n,  bet  Wells  and  Franklin "Wilson,  Thomas,  niill\vri<>ht,  S.  Branch,  soutli  of  Jackson,  Sd  ward "Wineoar,  Samuel  (John  F.  Lessey  &  Co.).  "bds  City  Refectory "VMnship,  James,  liaker,  bds  Joseph  Wlnsliip
[died.  Englewood.  111.,  Xoveniber  28.  1888,  aged  03-T-3. TVinship,  Joseph,  liread  and  cracker  baker,  71  Soutli  Water
[died,  Norwood  Park,  Cook  Co..  111.,  January  18,  1871,  aged  7Gi^. "Winshi]).  3Ioses  Day,  clerk.  Sidney  Sawyer,  bds  JosejJj  W'inshij) "Winslow,  Ilezekiah  J.  (Humphreys  &  W.),  bds  City  Hotel W'ischemeyer,  Henry,  luml)crman,  John  M.  Underwood "Wischemoyer,  William,  luml)ermau,  John  31.  Underwood "Witbeck,  Henry,  (Pierce  ik  ^\\),  res  West  W^ater
[died  April  13,  1801,  aged  7:-r>.l^. W^olcott,  Alex.,  surveyor,  bds  H.  AYolcott  [died  Aug.  Il,"l884.  a.  69. W'olcott,  Edward,  clerk,  Lerov  M.  Bovce,  bds  Heury'Wolcott
[died,  Xice,  France,  February'lS,  1884.  aged  02. Wolcott,  Henry,  clerk,  post-oflice,  res  n.-e.  cor  Wolcott  and  Kinzie
[died  Aprih  5,  1840,  aged  08. Wolcott,  Henry  Huntington,  clerk,  TIum])hreys  &  W^inslow,  bds
City  Hotel  '  [died.  Brooklyn,  X.Y.^.  Sept.  28.  1800,  aged  74.
Wollinger,  Thomas  [one  of  the  John  Stone  jury
Wood,  Alonzo  Church,  mason  builder,  res  Cass,  bet  Indiana  and  Ohio
[died  :\Iarch  18,  1802,  aged  80-8-14. Wood  (Alonzo  C.)  tfc  OgdCn's  OYni.  B.)  brickyard
Wood,  Daniel  T.,  lumber  salesman  [died  May  28,  1883,  aged  73 i£.
Wood,  James,  carpenter,  res  S.  Clinton,  bet  Washington  and  Madison Wood,  James  L.,  cabinet  maker,  Caleb  Morgan Wood,  Lawrence  D.,  cal»inet  maker,  Lake Woods,  Charles,  groceries,  81  South  AYater
AA'oodbury,  Adoniram  Jud.son,  clerk,  Bristol  S:  Porter,  bds  ^Monroe AV'oodljury,  Hiram,  clerk,  T.  AY.  Sa]isl)ury,  bds  ^Irs.  C.  AYoodl.iiry
[died.  Kimball,  Dak.,  April  2,  1887,  agvd  ylA AYoodbury,  ^frs.  C,  res  Clark,  bet  Harrison  and  Polk AYoodruff,  Jose])h,  shingle  maker,  .5th  ward AYoodyille,  Nelson  Delevan,  ])rinter,  bds  AYcstern  Hotel AYoodworth.  Hiram  P.,  contractor     [d.  Hennepin,  111.,         1851.  a.  57. AVoodworth,  Janvs  Hutchinson,  merchant
[10th  mayor,  died,  Highland  Park,  111.,  March  20,  1^00,  aged  Ol}^. AVoodworth,  Roliert  J.,  mercliant,  res  Clark  near  Randolph AV'ooster,  David  N.  (W.  6c  llarmim),  res  185  Waixish  ave
[died,  Avon,  31  o.,  1854,  agvd  4?>,
AVooster  S:  Harmon,  dry  goods  and-groceries,  111  South  AA'ater AVorccsler.  D.  L..  clerk,  Horace  Norton  6c  Co.,  res  Wal)ash  ave AVorthinghi'iu.  AViliiam,  mason,  res  99  Adams,  near  Clark
[removed  about  Pi50  to  St,  J^aul,  Alinn.,  and  die<l  Ihere. Wruight,  Thomas,  gardener,  near  AV'est  AYashington,  3d  wai'd
CHICAGO   DIRECTORY,    1S43.  ■:  103
AYriglit,  EJ^vard,  liiw-student,  bds  ^Trs.  Hulda  Wriglit,  ]\ricbigan  are
[suicide,  December  24,  1873,  aged  47. "Wriabt,  Jobn  Stepbeiiv  editor  and  ])voprietor  Frai7^ie  Farmer
[died,  Pbiladelpbia,  Pa..  Se])t.  2G,  1874,  aged  51). ■\Vrigbt,  ^Irs.  Hulda,  M'id.  of  .Jobn,  IIG  3Iicbigan  ave,  s.-w.  cor  Madison
[died  April  13,  18o4,  aged  G7. Wrigbt,  P.  R..  carpenter,  res  "W.  "^Yater,  ])et  liandolpb  and  Wasbingtou "\Yrigbt,  Timotby.  luls  3rrs.  .Jobn  "^Yriglit  [lives  New  York  City.
AYriiht,  Walter,' attorney  at  law,  112  Lake,  1:)ds  ^Irs.  Jobn  Y^^-iobt
[died  October  25,  187G.  aged  57. Wurts,  Alfred  Pettit,  res  Micbigan  ave
[died.  Jk'loit,  Wis..  xVngiist  5,  1879,  aged  681^. Wurts,  :Maurice  (M.  ^  M.  A.  W.),  l)ds  A.  P.  \Yurts AYiirts,  ^lanrice  A.  (:\I.  .t  31.  A.  \Y.).  bds  A.  P.  Wurts Wiirts,  ]M.  6z  ^l.  A.,  dry  goods  and  groceries,  99  Lake
Y'ard,  Arcbilntld  Pierson,  tailor,  Cbas.  Taylor,  bds  Samuel  IT.  Gilbert
[resides  Waukegan,  III. Yarno,  Jolm,  sbipcar])enter,  res  Dearborn,  soutb  of  ]\[adisou
[died.  Sauk  City,  Minn.,  Decenil)er  24,  1881,  aged  70. Yates,  Horace  Harris,  family  grocer,  39  Clark,  res  Clark,  bet  Aladison
and  ]Monroc Yoe,  Peter  Lynch,  l)Ook-kee])er,  Gurnee  it  ]\iatteson Y'ook,  Peter,  laborer,  res  soutb  of  Jackson Young,  A.  AY.,  medical  student.  Dr.  Daniel  Brainard Young,  Elislia  (William  *.t  Elisba  Y''.),  res  Soutb  Water Younir,'  Hugh,  cari)enter,  res  "NYasliington,  bet  Wells  and  Franklin Young  Alen's  Association,  library  and  reading-room,  37  Clark,  2d  tloor
C.  R.  Larralicc,  librarian Y'oung,  William  (\Yilliam  e'c  Elisba  Y.) Young,  William  ^  Elisba,  South  Water
Zieglcr,  Isaac,  pedlcr,  bds  Wa>hingtqn  Hall  [died  Oct.  10,  1893,  a.  85.
If  YOU  can  supply  an  omission,  correct  a
name,  add    a  date   or   a   number,  please    forward    same    for insertion  in  a  later  edition,  to
ROBERT   FERGUS,  Compiler, Blanks  furnished  on  application.         185   Illinois    St.,    Chicago.
^;i    ,   -I.
h'^.  ,>n/;i ./
.  :.:
::t    ^
^
^^ot^^
::^.  :i^
NO
^
<■
N     C>   N   0     >0
^0
cc
i-n
^      10  0
t^
t-.  r^o:  0  0
'^
>n  in
o"
r^  t-^  f.-  in  t-~!
t-^
VO
VO
NO
NO
t^  :>  r'-.  -   0
CO
^    ON
0
in  On  -n  N  cc
^
•0
^
n         or'
n
c^  p-00    r^  t^
VO.lO
>o
cc  :/;  cc  0  co
ON
On          0  CO
C^
On
;.:  cc  M  0-  00
cc
00  00
00
M  cc  cc  00  05
CO
CO
CO
00
...
"
-
M                M      ►-
?
r^.o"  ui  -    tC
0*
tf  cT
.£
^  -r  ^^%~-
^
0*
co"
M*       NO   r'
~
CO*
«     ■■    C^           M
a
^
=  5:
c
tiil  d
>,
a.
>
'■J
ti
<:-<.<.:z,
^
— .i^
2
c  c  ■^Ao
^
<
"^^
0
0
1  1  I  •  1
1  __
1    •
>,
1   1   1   .   1
1
1         <         r         >
1
  .  
1    I    1
I  1
<
C
JiSr
III"!
&^.
>
:  ;  ;  1  ;
|c  ?r  cc_i;  5;
1
0
CjC
1     0         1         1
;  M   .    '
1  rt  rt     ;
ft
a  3  §  5
U  \r.  io
rt    ri    rt
.  0  0
«  rt
.E.5
y
"  tl
.:a:
rt
5
=^.3  :-5  >■
X
'T -CX^
-a-c
<
'^  .X  .^  3 .-
y  -j:
y    U
"tc
,j
.  '=  .  i  .  ii  "5' .  i;
~
tj
)_
i
<
"x'"':;;
•^•x
15  ^
1H"3
0
0
3  5"5  rt
0  0  y
C    -J
"
c:DDju
0:^
U'^
s
2i
0  D  G  S  D
^
D
^
up;-.u
<
N-r-
Oici;;:^;
;ix
vn  0  >-  in  LT,
0    r;T
^
n
t-  mco  in  m
CO
^
Cs
in  r-.  in  CO
t-^
^
^  ON    N
inM
00000
0  -  0   0   "
0
N
^-  M  in
Tt-  m
K  CO  00  OC  'Ji
1  CO
cic  M
^
CO  CO  CO  cc  CO
cJc
CO
CO  OT  CO  CO
00  C^  CO
CO  CO
""-
w
M
M
K      -<
P
ii=i  d^   •    •    "
'    w"
^
,
;    ;  cc*  -^i  in
o"
i
CO-
?:-^'k ^
in
M*  „"  -T
U-*   C>
<
IN
=
^,<  i  1  i
1
\        \     -J     -;•     h
>>
i
$
s
tr-  Sc  >
3"  =     0
-i  C
:  :  :  :  ;
;   ;
;
-■-
>  :  ;  ;  ;
;
;
;    ;
;
:  ;  :
'J <
1
!   '   '.  >•    I
i  i  i^  i
^  <  :<  c  :^.
1    p
'IS .=  ^
5  5
^
3
u
rt P3
2
rt
>■  :  ;  :
£
rt
0
1- rt
h2J
„>(   rt rt    •    c
.2    '
.5  "^
10  -S-O     I     ^
\o  -o
r^  in
-n
in
-i-  t^O    m,  0
in
m
,-^
'^  m  -t  t-.
0
in
t>.  ro  i,-
N    0
f,  n  -',  r-,  -^
rr,   IV,
ro  ro
r';
m  "-.  ro  ri  fn
n
'n
NO   in  r-;
cc  :c  30  M  CO
CO  CO
00  00
CO
cb
00  CO  CO  M  00
CO
CO
CO
CO ' CO ' CO.' CO
00'
CO
CO  CO  00
CO  CO
<
>
,   ^    ,
•      M*
,
;  tC  J^   -0
00"
1
.'     0~    w-     -"
,
'        •     H
Geo
i:
'          '
'
N
'
1  '^  y
'
'•
<
'  >"
0
_.L
I  'J  >,  1  .     ;
_X
;  rs  -yTon
J_
,'___
bX  ci
t^Vi    -J    0    -
-)     r-1  ^
VA  0    r^
J^     O'
c~T
m  -f  m-o   t--
y^   '-
0    w   fj
r^i  ^
1.1    r^     -v,    ^      ,^,   v^
C    f-
Os^w    c,
.,,  (^  ^  .^
r^l    —    -      •
0  r<-,  r-,  --  1-
in  <n  in  m  in
>n  in
vO  \C
0    t~,  c-  r^
^  t^
CN  O-  .-■■
■J
cccococooocooococooocc
.^.  oi
.0  02  C/J
cocooocococococococococo
CC  ct
03  cc  CO  00
CO  CO  00  OC  CO
CO  CO  CO  CO
^  30  -^  .^
r"  0  10  '^<  rr
xJ  t^  cT
•^  fO  N
t^c"
1.T  4  cJ
00    tCvo"  •^  ro
croo'
010    ir
«    «
-0  ^
"   (N    t^  4nO
pP  rn
00"  in  rn
^^c-c^
■^-'O'  £  '
2
r".   -.    r:   Tt    r'.
■=  ??  i;
C    iZ    u
rt   rt   rs
u   U
u  t;  l;
^    :^   «    «    .-^
-  j;  "^
j;  ^
iJ    u    >■   >    >   u
>,  ^
<<<
i  'x  •-■  '^^^
iiii
I^SS^^i^'S'^'S^JS
2  S
22s
Sr^S  1^2  i^  r^
S  <-<<■<
•?-^
■"2; ;?;  '^  <  ^<
<:<<<
<^.c<
0   'J
'J'J
0         'J
^,—
u  — , —
'-)   'J    ^i    0   C
— ,—
_  .-  ^~.
_^   .
— -^
-  —  c
—  ,—
N,   ^_  
77"-  •_  .-
'.^              'Z  'Z
ll<ij
s
H  rt
^
-
-
L
rt  '3  rt
^   ri'Z    '
>
r:   w  ^-  ^    -2
br  S  B
2  t*l
5
^    rt
'J
.;:'.-
r;
CJ
.H.!^"^^
0
rt
•-  i3--
^.y.  /  .-
<
illii
;^
0    2
ill  it
§_
33
E.S.
1
'g
lljs
^  l
t
3  33
y  2  -  •
i*  "J
5''  Z
u      y
'J  0
o"  5  y"
_V   7j:  .;
£       ;:^a
CC-
Q     -
^
^    c
QCl^C:^
C(^
Q
c^
iiii
^
Q
r-<  C  :^
-  .  c  '  2
p  •  '
~~I
_      .-
■    III'
T~
.  .
~5
"Ts  ■
I      '1   z      .   <
5    1    !
-
i
!  ■<.    !    I    1
<
'    '  v:
•  y.     '
z  "*;*  !
?■
y.
Z  -y  S     ;  :i
S     J     '
1    ■    1
r.
1      i:
^     V        1        '        <
'  '
K
'
1    1  ^
Q
!  ~  ■-'
0  "
a
>    ■  Y.
<  .  <
i  5  i
5.^   ■
z  I
:^  a  a    ;  ^   E
K
j
s
'  'i  ^
<
z
^  z  i"  ^
-  <  - z  '^  2
y,  H   ;j
ii.-  u  z     .a 5>-  ■/;  c  ...  0
?  ?^ H.I
c5
;5
<
-^■^^T
<
Z
^  z  <  <  -J
-f  ?>  z
•/I       ■/,
'/-.
0    s: 5     <
KK
0
K
6
^  •
d-^?r^
z'ij  5i
ri  ''■  t.
i
>i
r  li
><
<
'^.
i  ^;  '2  ^
z
0
hd
2=?  §
br;  ':
^^.^<'^
:S^^<^.:^
-i,
5^:^H^
^.
i-^. — 1
M U4
0
a:-
\'^-?
'J
^,5."^
i
•2  =
c
-*■  m      vo  !>.      00  o    o
OBITXJ^IIY.
Names,  places,*  dates,  and  ages  at  death  of  some  of Chicago's  Old  Settlers,  prior  to  184.3,  and  other well  -  knov/n  citizens  who  arrived  after  1843, together  \vith  others  prominently  connected with    Illinois    history :
Adams,  E.  F.,  died  xV^ril  13,  1885,  a^cd  72.
Adams,  Soro-t.  Jo?eph,\lied,  S.  Evaiistoii,  111.,  June  9, 1885,  a.  S9i^. Adams,  William  Ilejiry,  died  jNlay  12,  1877,  a.Hcd  6i.
Aldrich,  William,  grocer,  ex.-M.  C,  died,  FoiKl-dn-Lac,  Wis.,
December  3,  1885,  aued  Go. Allen,  Archibald,  lake'-captaiii,  died.  Bull'alo,  N.Y.,  Dec.  1,  1818. Allen,  Col.  James,  U.  S.  Army,  died.  Fort  Leavemvorlh,  Kansas,
August  2o,  1810.  acred  40. Allport,  Dr.  AYalier'  Webb,  dentist,  died  March  21,  1893,  a.  09-9. Amberg,  Adam  Louis,  died  January  4,  1890,  aged  491:2. Anderson,  ^.lajor  Robert,  died,  Nice,  France,  Oct.  20,  1871,  a.  65. Andrews,  David,  died,  Kensington,  111,  May  29,  1885,  aged  77. Archer,  Col.  AVillijim  ]».,  died
Armour,  George,  died,  Brighton,  Eng.,  June  13,  1881,  aged  09. Armstrong,  Geo.  Buchanan,  postal  service,  d.  May  25, 1871,  a.  48-6. Ayrcs,  Enos.  real-estnce,  died  eJuly  10,  1890,  aged  82-2-15. Eailly,  Jo=e])h,  died,  Baillytown,'lnd.,  December  21, 1835,  aged  61. Baker,  William  D..  •'ii-iraver,  died  August  23,  1871,  aged  45. Balcom,  UrI,  lumber,  died  November  1,  1893,  aged  78-5-15. Balestier,  Joseph  Xcree,  lawyer,  died.  Brattleboro,  Vt.,  iSeptembcr
15,  1888.  ai«-ed  74^. Ballentyne,  Jas.  F..  printer,  d.,  San  Diego,  Cab,  July  12, 1870,  a.  49. Baragw-auath.  William,  machinist,  died  Sept.  20,  1888,  nged  08;l<. I>arber,  Er-niuel,  died  February  4,  1883,  aged  72^^. Barnett,  Geori!-e.  died,  Lockport,  Will  C^o.,  111.,  Jan.  5,  18G1,  a.  — . Bai-ry,  Bev.  NVilliam,  died  January  17,  1885,  aged  893^. Bates,  Edward,  lawyer,  president  River-an<l-lIarbor  (Convention,
Chicago.  Julv^  5-7.  1817:  Lincoln's  attorney-general;  died,  St.
Louis".  >[o.,  March  25,  1809,  aged  75-0-21. Bates,  Eii,  lumber  merchant,  philanthropist,  d.  Jan.  28, 1880,  a.  71. Bates,  George  C.,  lawyer,  died,  Denver,  Col.',  Feb,  11,  1880,  a.  71. Bates,  Ivinzie,  U.S.xV.'
•
*  In  most  cases,  except  as  otherwise  stated,  the  deaths  occurred  in  Chicago.
105
I06  '  OBITUAKY.  -
B:iv,  Henry  B.,  died,  Bloonniiotoii,  11]..  Mareh  10,  18G0,  aged  — . Beaubien,  Cliarles  Henry,  died.  Gross  Point,  111.,  1858,  ii^Jcd  51. Beaubien.  "Medore  Benj.,  d.,  Silver  Lake,  Kas.,  Dec.  26. 1883,  a.  713^ Beckw'iili,  Corydon,  lawyer,  died  Auuust  — ,  1890,  aued  — . Beeclier,  Rev.  Ilenry  Ward,  died,  Brooklyn,  KY.,  March  8,  1887,
aged  71. Bell,  Hon.  Diubv  V.,  educator,  died,  Battle  Creek,  Micli,  Oct.  28.
1871,aoed  68. Benlk'V,  Cyrus,  lawyer,  died,  Bochester,  N.Y.,  June  21,  1888,  a.  GS. Betts.  L)r.  Josiah  P.,'  died,  Kaskaskia,  111.,  after  1811. BiLiclow,  Capt.  Abraham,  U.  S.  X.,  died  April  3,  18C1,  aged  03. Biiiclow,  George  A.,  died  !M.arcli  28,  1872,  aged  35. Bigelow!  Liberty,  died,  Melrose,  Boston,  Mass.,  May  1,  1800,  a.  75. Birkbeck,  ]Morris,  first  settler  Edwards  County,  drowned  in  Fox
Eivcr.  between  Albion,  111.  and  Xew  Ilarnionv,  Ind.,  June  4, .  1825,  aged  62:  .secretary  of  state,  1821-5. Bishop.  Albro  E.,  died  Xoveniber  15.  1880,  aged  66. Bissell,  Gov.  ATm.  IL,  doctor,  lawver,  soldier,  died,  Springtleld,
111.,  March  18,  1860,  aged  18-9-21. Blackvv-ell,  Robert  S.,  lawyer,  died  Mai'cli  16,  1860,  aged  51. Blair,  Chauncey  Bulkley,  banker,  died  Jan.  30,  1891,  aged  80-7-12. Blair,  George,  tailor,  died  February  13,  1812,  aged  10. Blair,  Lyman,  died  (suicide)  September  25,  1883,  aged  68. Blake,  Capt.  Cheslev,  soldier  and  lake-captain,  died,  Milwaukee,
Wis.,  October  3,  1819.  aged  60. Blanke,  Judge  Geo.  Frederick,  lawyer,  d.  July  28, 1895,  a.  62-9-26. Blatchford,  Rev.  John.  died.  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Apr.  8,  1855,  aged  59. Bogart,  Dr.  llenrx'  Xau  dei",  died,  Xaperville,  111.,  April  8,  1835,
aged  25. Bolles,  Peter,  died,  Xew-York  Citv,  August  19,  1839,  au-ed  15. Bond.  Ezra,  died  before  :Nrarch  9,  1852. Bontiehl,  Joseph,  lawver,  died  Februarv  19,  1881,  aged  10. Borein,  Rev.  Peter  Rubel.  died  August'l5,  1839,  aged  29. Bowen,  Chauiicev  Thomas,  mercJiant,  died,  Ciiester,  Mass.,  Mar.  5,
1896.  aged  63-6-20. Bowon,  James  Harvcv,  died  Mav  1,  1881,  aged  59. Bradley,  MaJ.  Ilezekiah,  U.  S.  A"!,  died  May  18,  bS26,  aged  10. Bradweil,  Myra  Colby,  lawyer,  editor  Chicago  Legal  JS^etcs,  died
Fein-uary  21.  I>s91,  aged  63.. Bi-ngg,  ;Maj.  Frederii-k  Au«jiistus,  died  April  5,  1887,  aged  57;'(. Branigaii,  James.  dic«l  b<d'ore  January  2,  1819. Braiiniioh!.  (;;u>tav,  bookbinder,  died,  St.  Charles,  Ilk,  Februarv
18,  1890,  aged  75 'p Breese,  J'.»iah  S.,  died, Breese,  Ju(lg<;  and  Senator  Sidney,  d.,  Pinckiic}'villo,  Ilk,  JuriC  27,
1878,  aire  <i  78. Bro]isun,  Arthur,  capitalist,  died.  New  York,  Nov.  19,  1811,  a.  — . liros-,  Gen.  John  Armstrong,  killed,  Petersburgjj,  Ya.,  July  30,
1861,  aged  38 1.^.
'  ■'. }
•i:>  >!  I.    ,   !,'•  \
i" -'.)!:
,iiJK/.
OBITUARY.  ;  '^07
Bross,  Phiiieus  Camp,  died  July  22.  1S59,  :\ged  oi}4  '    '    ■  '
Bross,  Gov.  Wiiliam,  died  January  27,  1800.  aized  7G. BroT\'u.  Joliu  J.,  died  Aug-ust  13,  iS50,  aged  10. Brown,  Wiliiaiu.  died  Suiiimit.  Coolc  Co..  June  28,  1819.  aged  08. Browning.  Orville  Hickman,  lawyer,  died  August  10,  1881,  a.  71. Buck,  George,  druggist,  died  October  3.  1889,  aged  62. Buckingliam.  Gen.  Cathrinus  Putnam,  died  Aug.  20,  1888,  a.  80. Buckley,  John,  found  frozen,  January  1(5.  1849,  aged  — . Bucklin,  James  ]N[.,  civil-engineer,  died  GreeJicastle,  Ind.,  April
12,  1S9U.  .iged  >7. Burgess,  AVm.  Tlieobold,  lawyer,  died  Oct.  31. 1895,  aged  78-11-26. Burling-amo,  Anson,  died,  St.  Petersburg,  llusbia,  Feb'y  23,  1873,
aged  ol^-i- Burlingame,  Rev.  Joel,  died,  Arlington  Heights,  Cook  Co.,  TIL,
Januarv  6,  1883,  aged  83. Burnet.  G^en.  Ward  B.,  died,  AVashington,  D.C.,  June  24,  1881,
aged  73. Burnside.  Gen.  Ambrose  Everett,  died,  Bristol,  R.T.,  Septend)er  1 3,
.1881,  aged  57. Burr,  Jonathan,  philanthropist,  died  February  4,  1869,  aged  75. Butler,  Walter,  capitalist,  died  August  8,  1851.  aged  — . Byfoi-d.  Dr.  Arilliam  Heath,  died  May  21.  1890,  aged  73. Caldwell,  Billy  (Indian  chief  "  Sauganash"),  died,  Cotmcil  Blulfs,
Iowa,  September  '26,  1841 ,  aged  60. Campbell,  Benj.  II.,  capitalist,  drovrned  Nov.  26,  1890,  aged  — . Campbell,  Georiie  L.  i Good-ell  &  C.),died,  Cleveland,  O.,  Sept.
28,  1842,  aged  "'28. Campbell,  AlaJ.  James  B.,  died,  St.  Charles,  Mo.,  Jaimary  3,  1873. Carpenter,  xVlxd  E.,  died,  Aurora,  HI.,  December  8,  1882,  aged  69. Cari)enter,  j><'n)amin,  packer,  died  April  9,  1881,  aged  71-4-5. Carter,  Aricmns.  died  ^lay  13.  1877.  aged  64. Caiwer,  lienjamin  F.,  banker,  died  May  23,  1893,  aged  61. Casey,  Edward  W.,  lawyer,  died,  Xew  Ham]>shire,  after  1842. Cass.  Gen.  aii'l  Gov.  Lewis,  died,  Detroit,  Mich.,  June  17,  186G,
aged  84. Catiin,  Seth,  diec]  January  18,  1863,  aged  50. Canlfield.  ]i.,-riiai-d  G.,  lawver,  died,  Deadwood,  D.  T.,  December
19.  1887,  a2-.'d  59. Chadwick,  William  Peach,  died  December  12,  1892,  aged  67-1-27. Chapin,  Ebf-r  J.,  died  Februarv  5,  1883,  aged  67.     , Ciiapin,  Orson,  died  August  28.  183!),  age<i  22. Chapman,  I[arv(;v  H.,  died.  Warehouse  Point,  Conn.,  February
19,  1882,  aged  33. <'iiase,  Cliarles  Carroll,  abstracts,  dh^l  December  4.  1895,  aged  66. Chase,  Sannicj  Blanchard.  abstracts,  died  Mar.  27,  1896,  a:  72-5-1. Chickering'-,  John  W.,  lawyer,  died  March  3.  1877,  aged  — . C]iu)na.«;ero,  John  'J\vron,  nicrchant,  died  A])ril  15,  1896,  aged  56. C  lark,  Gen.  George  Rogers,  died,  near  Louisville,  Kv.,  January  13,
iS18,  aged  65.
.n
lOS  OBITUARY.  ':    ■    '  _■  -.■-
Clark,  Gen.  and  Gov.  \Viii..  died,  St.  Louis.  :Mo.,  Sept.  1. 1838,  a.  68. Clarke.  Charles  Frederick,  banker,  died  Oct.  8, 1893.  aged  37-1-11. Clarke.  John  Vaiiuhan,  gTocer,  banker,  died  Aug.  8,  1892,  aged  G7. Clarke,  Geo.  C,  in?,  art.  d..  Thomasville,  Ga..  Apr.  5.  1887.  a.  49. Clarke,  Dr.  Henry,  died,  AVahvorth.  Wis.,  before  April  23,  1853,  ■
aged  60. Clarke.  Xormi.n,  died.  Racine,' Wis,  Febrnary  28,  1S85.  aged  80. Clvboiirn,  Henlev.  died,  Westville.  Ind.,  1S7G.  a^ed  72.
Clybourn.  Capt.  John  Henry.  19th  111.  Vols.,  d.  Sept.  20,  187o,  a.  38. Clvl)ourn.  Jonas,  fttrier  of  Archibald  and  Henlev,  died,  Westville^
ind..  July  21,  1S12.  aged  — . Cobb.  Edwin,  died.  West  Xorthlield,  Cook  Co.,  111.,  April  21, 1885^
aged  81. Cobb.  George  W..  died  July  11.  1885,  aged  65. Cobb,  George  Warriniiton.  merchant,  died  Jan.  21, 1894,  a.  89-4-13. Cobb.  James  W..  machinist,  died  July  6,  1890,  aged  75. Cobb,  Zenas,  jr.,  first  inventor  of  sleepuig-car,  died.  LosAngeles^
Cab.  Januarv  15,  1886.  aged  681^^. Coffey.  Patrick,  died  Mayl8,  1858,  aged  — . CofliM.  Frederick,  died.  CJswego,  111..  January  22,  1884,  aged  67. Coffin.  Joseph  Warren  Chase,  died Colbv.  Eben  Franklin,  died  AultusI  10,  1884.  aired  68-^. Cole^,  Gov.  Edward,  died.  Phila'.,  Pa.,  July  7,  i'868.  aged  81i^. Collier,  Rev.  Roijert  Laird,  died,  "The  Everglades,''  N.  J.,  July
26,  1890,  aged  52-10-19. Collins,  George  C.  died Colvin,  Ilarvev  Doolittle,  airent  U.-S.  Express,  22d  mavor,  died
April  16,  1892,  aged  76-3-26. Conant.  Rev.  Augustus  JL.  died  February  8,  1863,  aged  — .• Cook,  Ihirton  C.  lawyer,  d.,  Evanston,  111.,  Aug.  18. 1894. a.  75-3-7. Cook.  Daniel  Pope,  lawyer,  died,  Kentucky,  Oct.  16, 1827,  aged  33. Cooke,  Daniel  Brainanl,  bookseller,  died  October  21, 1^84,  aged  59. Cooke,  Richard  E..  died  April  15,  1885,  aged  63. Cool1>a!igh,  William  Findlay,  suicide,  Xov.  14,  1877,  aged  5Gi<. Cor^e,  Gen.  John  M..  died,  Winchester,.  Mass.,  Apr.  27,  1893,  ;i.  rS. Corwith,  Heiu-y,  died,  Gibson's  Lake.  Wis.,  Sept.  15, 1888,  a.  75}^. Corwith,  Xathan.  died  1889,  aged  73.
Coventrv,  Alex.  C,  lawver,  died,  Xcw-York  Citv,  ^March  6,  1872. CovN-lf-s,  Alfred,  lawyer,  d.,  San  Diego,  Cab,  Xov.  16,  is87.  a.  100-4-5. Cowles.  Alfred;  man:iiier  Chicago  Tribune^  d.  Dec.  20, 1889,  a.  bl^i,. Craft-'.  John,  died       '  ,  1825.
Crawford,  Petei-.  died  November  2,  1876,  aged  81i{. Crertr,  John,  merchant,  capitalist,  philantliropist,  died  October
19.  1889.  aged  65. Crocker.  Hans,  lawyer,  died,  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  Mar.  17,  1889,  a.  73. Cronin,  Dr.  Patrick  Henry,  murdered  May  4,  1889,  aged  — . Cro.ok=.  Ram«:ay,  dir-d,  Xe'w-York  City,  June  6,  1859,  aged  72i^. Cullertoii,  Edwiird.  died  July  13,  18^5,  aged  93. Curtis,  Rev.  Harvey,  died,  Galcsburg,  111.,  Sept.  18,  1862.
:i~l-^ii^^
.Y^f.o■^J.*
I'Mih
OBITUARY.  109
D:i9'2v,  Peter,  Ifiwver.  land  coiamissioner  Illinois  Centnil  Railway,
died  July  14,  1S\'6.  a^-ed  76-S-19. Dale,  AVilliam  McI\Iillan,  drno'uist,  died,  Charlevoix,  Mich.,  Julv
31,  1888,  ao-ed  45.  '         ^^
Dalliba,  James  E.,  died,  Marquette.  :\[ich.,  ^[ar.  23,  1894,  aged  72. Day,  Lieut.  Hannibal,  died,  Morristown,  N.J.,  Mar.  26.  ISOi,  a.  86. Dean.  Siias  TisdelJ,  musician,  died  Jaiuiarv  12,  1889.  aged  71. Dearborn,  Gen.  Henry  G.  R.,  died,  Roxbury,  Mass.,  Nov.  21,  1884,
aged  75. Dearl>orn.  Gen.  Henrv,  died  June  6,  1829,  aged  78. DeCamp,  Surg.  Sam'l' G.  T.,  died,  Saratoga,  N.Y.,  Sept.  8, 1871,  a.  — . Derby,  William  M..  died  December  6,  1892,  aged  67-11. Devine,  Peter,  boiler-mai:er,  died  January  7,  1890,  aged  57. Dewev,  Dr.  Erasius.  died
DeWolf,  Henrv,  treasurer  111.  Cent.  Rv,  died  Oct.  10,  1893,  a.  49. DeWolf,  Lieut.  William,  died,  Washington,  D.C.,  June  2,  1862,
a^ed  20. DeWolf,  AVilliam  Frederick,  died  July  25,  1896,  aged  85. Dexter,  Wirt,  Inv/ver,  died  Mav  17,  1890,  aii-ed  57. Dickens,  Augustus  X.,  "Boz.''  died  October  4,  1866.  aged  40. Dickey,  Judge  Theophilus  Lyle.  died,  Atlantic  City,  N.  J.,  July
23,  1885.  aged  743^. Dit'tzsch,  Emil,  ex-coroner,  died  September  — ,  1890.  aged  — . Dogsrett,  Mrs.  Kate  Xewell,  wid.  of  Wm.  E.,  died,  Havana.  Cuba.
:Marcli  13, 1884.  a.  —  :  founder  of  "Tlie  Fortnightly  of  Chicago."' Doggett,  AVilliam  Elkanah.  died  April  3,  1876,  {rged'55>.^. Dooiittlc,  Elijah,  died,  Joliet,  III.
Duolittle.  James  R..  jr.,  lawyer,  died  August  8,  1889,  aged  44. Doty,  Tlie<jdoru-,  died  June  11,  1885,  aged  83xi. Douglas,  Capt.  Beiijaniin,  died,  Bloomlield,  X.J.,  Decendjer,  1882. Douglas,  Judge  John  M.,  died  Mai-cli  26,  1891,  aged  70-7-4. Douglas,  Senator  St*'])hen  Arnold,  died  July  3,  1861,  aged  48. Douglass,  Lieut.  William  M.,  died  by  poison,  Aug.  8,  1875,  a.  57. Douglass,  Charles,  died.
Downinir,  Daniel,  •' Siinnysido."  died  October  8,  1892,  aged  77. Doyle,  Simou,  cattle  dealer,  died  November,  1851. Drake,  John  Burroughs,  hotel,  died  Xoveraber  12,  1895,  aged  70. Driscoll,  D'.unrA  I).,  iawver,  shot  De«-ember  21,  1871,  aged  45. Drummond,  Jiulge  Thoiiia^,  d.,  Wheaton,  III.,  May  15, 1890,  a.  80-7. Dnuiimond,  Judi^e  Wm.  W.  (Utah),  'lied  Xov.  20,  1888,  aged  — . Dubois,  Jesse  K.^died,  Springtield,  111.,  Nov.  24.  1876,  aged  — . L>ucat,  Gen.  Arthui-  Charles,  insurance,  died,  Downei-'s  Grove,  111.,
Januarv  29,  1.^06.  M^-'-d  65-11-5. Diick,  Dr.  (;ii:is.  Hill. died.  Philadefphia,  Pa.,  Nov.  12,  1880,  a.  62. i>nrjham,  John  JFi^h,  'jrocer,  died  April  28,  1893,  aged  75-9. l>urilop,  Gf'orge,  died  Aprils,  ISGO. L>^nil;ip,  Matthias  Lano, '•  Rural,"  died  on  his  ftirm,  Champaigi>
County.  III.,  about  Februarv  14,  1875,  aged  60i^. I^iitch,  Alfred,  editor,  died  November  7,  1878,  aged  78.
no  ~  OBITUARY.
J)yclie.  Dr.  David  IJiper.  died.  Evansloii.  111.,  Au_o'.  4,  1893,  a.  — . Dyer  Clarence  IL.  coal.  died.  AVoodstock,  Yr..  Aug-.  10,  1894.  a.  51. Earlev,  Georue  \V.,  died  April  7.  1885.  aged  7:3. Eckhart.  Tlioma>.  caterer,  died  March  i2.  1891.  ai^-ed  65-3-19. Eddy,  AVilliam  H.,  ••  Horse  Eddy,''  died  Feb.  21,1896.  aged  75. Edoell.  Stephen  M..  died.  St.  Louis.  Mo,.  Oct.  19,  1883,  naed  73. Eaan,  Dr.  Clia?.  Bradshaw.  d..  Blue  Island,  111.,  Feb.  3, 1878,  a.  72, Etliott,  Franklin  P..  paper,  d..  Oak  Fark,  11!.,  Jan.  10. 1893,  a.  58-6. Ellis,  Dr.  J.  Vrard.  dentist,  died  December  20.  1890.  aged  62. Ellison,  Col.  John  A.,  anctioneer,  died  Sept.  26,  1893,  aged  67, Ells^^orth,  Col.  Ephraim  Elmer,  killed,  Alexandria,  Va,,  May  24,
1861,  aged  24;   organized,  March,  1869,  and  commanded  U.-S.
Zouave  Cadet-;,  military  champions  of  America,  1860. Ellsworth.  Lewis,  died.  Xaperville.  Dupage  Co.,  111.,  January  15,
1885,  ao-ed  80. Evans,  ^iichael.  -By  Dang,"  died  July  31,  1894,  aged  Go. Fake,  Henry,  died  becember  — ,  1884.  aged  — . Farnum.  Henry,  died,  Mew  Haven,  Conn.,  Oct.  4,  1883,  a.  80-6-25. Ferry,  M^illiarn  Henry,  died  ]March  26,  1880,  aged  — . Field,  Bciijaniin.  sieeping-car  promoter,  d.  Xew-York  State,  18 — . Field,  Ilenrv,  drv-aoods  merchant,  died  Dec.  22,  1890,  aged  49. Filkins,  Jolin.  d'ied,  Morris,  III,  April,  1854,  aged  44. Filkins,  Joseph,  died  November  12.  1857,  aged  52. FHnt,  Dr.  Au-tiu.  died.  New  York  City,  March  13,  1886,  aged  73)^. Flolo,  William,  died  December  14,  1885,  aged  57-4-21. Flower,  George,  first  settler  of  Edwards  Co.,  died,  Grayville,  111.,
Januarv  15,  18G2.  aued  74. Foley,  lii'shop  Thumas.  dird  February  10,  1879,  aged  56. Foltz,  Conrad,  jailor,  died  October  16,  1890,  aged  64. I'oot,  Dii.vid  A.,  died,  Ivavenswood,  Cook  Co.,  11.,  December  27,
1881,  ao-ed  59. Forbes,  Stephen  Yanllensselaer,  died  February  11, 1879,  aged  81^^. Ford,  Thomas,  lawyer,  judge,  and  governor,  died,  Peoria,  111.,
Noveud)er  3,  1850,  aged  5<,>. Forrest,  Hem-y  Lawrence,  banker,  died  Oct.  24.  1860,  aged  42^^. Forsyth.  Thomis.  Iiulian  agent,  died,  St.  Louis,  ;Mo.,'Oct.  20,  1833,
aged  62;  half-brother  of  Ji^hn  Kinzie. Forsythe.  John,  died  September  22.  1885,  aged  oo. ForsVth,  Ptobert,  died.  Savannah,  Ga.,  April  15.  1885,  aged  60i<. Forsyth,  KobertA.,  died,  D<'troit,  Mich.,  Oct.  -21,  1849,  aged  53. Fostei-,  Lieut.  Amos  Bancroft,  shot  by  a  private,  at
Fort  Hov,'ard.  Green  P.av,  Wi-..  Februaiy  7,  1832.  aged  30. Fox,  IL.rry,  died.  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah,  Sept.  4,  1883,  aged  57. Frank,  Arncdd,  uicrchant,  dien*Sei)tember  20,  1893,  ai^-ed  78. Freeman,  Ptcv.  Allen  B..  died  Df'cendx>r  17,  1834,  aged  27. Freei',  Dr.  Joseph  Warren,  died  April  12,  1877,  aged  61. French,  George  ira-kel,  hotel-keeper,  died  Nov.  1,  1870,  aged  54. Fry,  Gen.  Jacob,  dir-d, Fuller,  Sanmel  Worcester,  lawyer,  died  October  25,  1873,  a.  51i.2.
I    -J  J,
[J    .Mil
OBITUARY.  .  Ill
Funnaii,  Licnt.  John  G.,  died  August  29,  1830,  aged  20.
Gage,  David  A.,  hotel-keeper,  died,  Charlcstowii,  N.H.,  April  12,
1889.  aged  — . Gage,  George  ^Y.,  hotel-keeper,  died  Sept.  24-,  1875,  aged  63 ^,. Gage,  Thoinis  Q.,  died,  MeiVHiiinee,  Midi.,  May  18,  ISSl,  au^xl  73. Gale,  Daniel  AVarreii,  merchant,  died  April  13.  lS9fi,  aged  73. Gallup,  Benjamin  Elo.,  kawyer,  died  Dec.  1,  1895,  aged  69-4-19. Garrison,  Andrew,  lawyer,  died  June  17,  1888,  aged  6S. Gassetto,  Xornian  T..  real  estate,  died  March  26,  1891,  a.  51-11-5. Gates,  Caleb  F.,  merchant,  died  June  9.  1890.  aged  66. Gaubert,  Charles  11.,  died  :March  21.  1884,  aged  60. Gavin,  Isaac  11,.  ex-slieriti",  d.,  Wankegan,  Lake  Co.,  III..  1818,  n.  — . Germain,  George  11..  died,  Eseanaba,  Mich..  Dec.  6.  1882,  aged  QQ. Gibbs,  Dr.  Aaron,  dentist,  died  August  3,  1890,  aged  83. ' Gillespie,  Judge  Joseph,  died.  Ed  wardsville.llL,  Jan.  7, 1885.  a.  76'^.< Gillmore.  llol)ert  A.,  drowned  August  9.  1867,  aged  — . Gilmaii,  Mai*cus  D.,  grocer,  died,  Montpclier.  Yt.."jau.  5. 1889.  a.  — . Gilpin,  Henry  D..  lawver,  phihinthropist,  died.  Philadelphia.  Pa.,
January  29,  1860,  aged  58-9-15. C'indele,  John  George,  died  Jaiuiarv  20,  1872.  aged  58. Gowlell,  J.  ^Y..  dici'l."  Somonauk,  III.,  Febrnarv  23,  1885,  aired  72. Goodhue,  Dr.  Josiah  C,  died,  Pockford,  Ilk,  Dec.  31,  1847,' a.  — . Gooding-,  Jas])cr  Augustus,  died,  Gooding-'s  Grove,  111.  Dec.  6,
1855,  aged  A[\i. Gooding,  Will iani  E.,  died  Mnrch  4,  1878.  aged  75. Goodrich,  Lakr-capt.  Albert  E.,  died  September  14,  1885.  agpd  59, Goodwin,  John,  horseslioer.  died  September  16,  1885,  aged  8b. Goodwin,  S.  A.,  died  2klay  14.  1879,  aged  73. (iossage,  Charles,  died  January  5,  1883.  aged  53. Goudy,  AVilliam  Calvin,  lawyei-,  died  xVpril  27,  1893.  aged  69. Graham.  Gen.  James  Duncan,  died  Decembcn-  2S,  1865,  aged  73. Grant,  elames.  lawyer,  died.  (Jaklaml,  Cak,  Mar.  14,  1891',  aged  78. Gi-ant,  Gen.  Ulysses  Simpson,  died.  ^It.  MacGregor,  N.Y..  Julv
23,  1885,  aired  63i_|. Green,  Georiie  Wills,  suicided  in  Cook-Co.  jail.  Feb.  24, 1855.  a.  — . Grimwood,  Xeuion  S.,  reporter,  lost  in  Lake  Michigan,  July  15,
1875,  with  Prof.  Donaldson's  balloon,  aged  — . Grubb,  Georgf'  (L.  died.  Cliesterto]i,  Ind.,  Decem1)er  7,  1886,  a.  — . Gurney,  Theodor."  Tnthill,  lawyer,  died  Xov.  9,  1886,  aged  66. Guthrie,  Alfred,  died  August  17,  1882,  aijed  77. Cuthrie,  Jamr  s.  died,  Suinniif.  HI..  Julv  3,  1810,  aged  89. Guthrie,  Peter,  died.  St.  Charles,  111.,  October  21,  1861,  a^'ed  54. 1  fa  ^cr,  1 '  rof.  A I !  )ert  Da  v  id .  d  i  ( -d  .1  u  I  y  29.  1 888,  aged  71.^^ Hahn,  Jairios  Au'justus,  }>hysici:nT,  died  Oct.  25,  1875,  aged  71^3. Haines,  Elijali  ^.1  iddlebj-ook.  tailor,  lawyer,  politician,  died,  Liber-
tyville.  111.,  April  25,  ]88i>,  aged  68. l^^'JUlIn,  Clark  Kates,  treasurer,  died  Sept.  2.  1883,  ao-ed  41. Ihninuond.  Col.  Charles  Goodricli,  died  April  15,  1884,  a^ed  SO. Huicock,  Col.  John  L.,  di'.-d  Fel)ruarv  17,  1890,  aged  77.  ^
112  OBITUARY.
FTandr.  Maj.  Henrv  S.,  contractor^  died,  Baviield,  Mich.,  18-i6,  a.  42.
Hansen.  Gcoroe  F.',  died  May  21,  1883,  ao'cd  71.
Hardy,  Isaac. ^:lied,  LaSalle,  111.,  September  14,  1864,  a-cd  61.
Harmon.  Isaac  Dewey,  died  April  9,  1880,  a,ii-ed  72.
Harmon.  Martin,  flitlier  of  I.  X.  and  E.  E..  died
Harris.  Uriah  Peter,  clothier,  C.  E.  fire  dep't,  d.  June  2,  '71,  a.  53)^.
Harrison,  Carter  Henry,  25th  mayor  of  Chicago,  assassinated  at  his
home,  Oct.  28, 1893,  8  p.m.,  by  Engene  Patriclv  Joseph  Prender-
gast,.aged  6S-8-13. Harvie,  Andrew,  attorney-at-hiw.  died  January  14,  18G3,  aged  56. Hatfield.  Key.  Kobert  M.\  died,  Eyanston.  [IL.'Apr.  1.  1891,  a.  73. Hathaway,  Dr.  Otis  P.,  died  January  20,  1896,  aged  74. Hatliayray,  "Wm.  G.,  sahool-teachcr,  died  Courtland,  N.Y.,  Jan.  8,
1891,  aged  — . Hayen,  Cai-los,  died  May  3.  1862,  aged  383><. HaA'cn,  Luther,  died  Man^h  9.  1806,  a^'cd  59,
Hayen.  Dr.  Samuel  Rush,  d..  New  Lenox,  IlL,  May  4, 1890,  a.  63i^. Hayden,  Peter,  sadlery,  died,  Xew-York  City,  April  6,  1888,  a.  82. Hayes,  Saiauel  Snowdon.  died  Jannarv  23,  1880,  aged  59. Heahl.  Capt.  Xathan,  died,  St.  Charles.^ Mo.,  Apr.  27, 1832,  aged  57. Heath,  Monroe,  paints.  24th  mayor,  died,  xVshyille,  N.  C,  October
21,  1894,  aged  67.       ' Hempslead,  Edward,  lumber,  d.,  Eyanston,  111.,  May  2, 1895,  a.  75, Henderson,  Charles  Mather,  merchant,  d.  Jan.  23,  1896,  a.  01-10-2. Herrick,  Dr.  Wm.  B.,  died.  Durham,  Maine,  Dec.  31,  1865,  a.  521;^. Herrington,  Augustus,  died,  Geneya,  111,,  August  14, 1884,  aged  64. Hesler,  Alex.,  photographer,  died  July      1895,  aged  72. Heyyvood,  I'orter  P.]  insurance,  died  April  28,  1896,  aged  67. Hicklino-,  William,  died  August  25,  1881,  aired  66;!^. Higgins;  Judge  VanlloUis,  d.,Darien,  AYis.rApr.  17, '93,  a.  72-1-19. Hine-,  Austin,  died  February  27,  I860,  aged  — . Hinton,  liev.  Isaac  Taylor,  died,  New  Orleans,  La.,  August  28,
1817,  nged48. Hoard,  Samuel,  died  Noyember  25,  1881,  aged  81  years,  6  months. Iloll'rnan,  Charles  Feimo,  author,  died,  Hurrisburg,  Pa.,  June  7,
1884,  aged  78. Hoflnian,  Johu,  ex-sheriff,  died  January  30,  1889,  aued  51. Hogan,  John  Steplien  Coates,  early  postmaster,  died,  Memphis,
Tenn.,  1866. Hoge,  Al>ram  IL,  merchant,  died  January  19,  1890,  aged  90. Hoit,  Chnrles,  died
Hooley,  Ilichard  M.,  theatrical  manager,  died  Sept.  8,  1893,  a.  71. How,  Ceo.  ^Murdoch,  com.  mer..  died  dul  v  10,  1893,  aii'ed  67-7-10. Howland.  fieorge,  teacher,  di^^d  October  22,  1892,  aged  67-6-20. Hovne.  Michael  A.,  bookbinder,  died  Marcli  25,  1891,  aged  73. Hubbard.  Elijah  Kent,  died  May  26,  1X3'J,  aged  26. Hugunin.  Daniel,  died.  Kenosha,  Wis.,  June  26,  1850,  aged  60>;^. Hugunin,  Kdward,  died.  O  ikland,  Cal.,  :March  17,  187s.,  aged  64. Hugunin,  Hiram,  burned,  Waukegan,  111.,  Dec.  12,  1866,  aged  08.
.•;:•  f
OBITUARY.  .■  ^         "113
IIiigTiniii,  Johu  Clark,  died,  Mihyaiikee,  Wis.,  July  4, 1865,  a.  5-i'^{. Hngau'mi  Judge  Peter  Daniel,  died  April  22,  18G5,  aged  82-.^. Hnguiiiu,  Gapt.  Robert,  died,  Lyons,  IlL,  June,  1862,  aged  70, Humphrey,  liev.  Zephauiiah  Moore,  died,  Cincinnati,  6.,,  Novem- ber 17,  iSSl.  aiied  57. flunt,  Chas.  Cotesworth  Piiickney,  died  April  21,  1892.  aged  90. Hunt,  Edwin,  died  October  14,  1874,  aged  659^. Hunt,  Dr.  \Vm.  Carlton,  died  February  — ,  1891,  aged  G^. Hunter,  Gen.  David,  died,  Washington.  D.C.,  February  2,  1886,
aged  83-6-11. Hunter  Edward  E.,  justice  of  peace,  died Huntoon,  Bejigslev,  died
Hun  toon,  Geo.  :M.',  died.  Grand  Ledge,  Mich.,  Aug.  6,  1884,  a.  93. Huntoon,  jr..  Geo.  M..  died.  So.  Evanston,  Dec.  21,  1879.  aged  — . Hurlbut.  Henry  H..  autlior,  died  April  21,  1890,  aged  77. Hurlburt,  Gen.  SleDhen  Auuustus,  died,  Lima,  Peru,  S. A.,  while
U.-S.  Minister,  starch  27,  1882,  aged  m. Hussander,  Peter  John,  clothier,  died  December  19,  1SS6,  aged  62. Ingalls,  Albert  ^Y..  prin.  Dearborn  School,  died,  April,  1850,  a. — . Jngham,  Geo.  Collins,  lawyei-,  died  Feb.  26.  1891,  aged  39-11-16. Ingraham.  Granville  S.,  grocer,  died.  Pass  Christian,  Miss..  -Dec,
20,  1892',  aged  68. Irwin,  Matthew,  U.-S.  factor  and  Lidian  agent,  died,  Uniontown,
la.,  about  1845,  aged  75. Jackson,  Francis,  died  May  7,  1890,  aged  51. Jackson,  Obaliah,  jr.,  lawyer,  died  March  13,  1878,  aged  — . Jackson,  Obadiah,  sr.,  grocei-,  died  October  18,  1865,  aged  61. James,  Benj.  F.,  lawyer,  died,  AVashington,  D.C.,  1>>—..  a.  — .
Jarnieson,  Judge  Jobn  Alex.,  died  June  16,  1890,  aged  65 ig. Jamieson,  Lemuel  B.,  printer,  died  February  2,  1888,  aged  63. Jamieson, Ca^it.  Louis  Titus,  died,  Rio  Grande,  Tex.,  Oct.  1856,  a.  51, Janseu,  Egbert  L..  booivseller.  d.,  Detroit.  Mich.,  Nov.  13. '92,  a.  — . Jeniiings.  l>enjamin,  ty])e-caster,  clown,  died  Jan.  23,  187'i,  a.  66. Jev.'cll,  Dr.  James  Stewart,  died  April  17,  1887,  aged  49 H, Johnson,  Dr.  Hosmer  Allen,  died  Februarv  26,  1891,  a2"<"'d  <c')>>. Johnson,  ^Vm.  S.,  died,  Jacksonville,  Fla.,*March  21,  1S82,  a.  5S%. Jones,  Daniel  Ama^a,  packer,  capitalist,  and  i)hilantlir()pist,  died
January  11.  18sG,  aged  78. Jones,  Geo.  Wallace,  ex-scnator,  died,  Dubuque,  la.,  julv  22, 1896,
aged  92-3-10. Jones  (Kromfield)  John,  (octoroon),  died  May  21,  1879.  aged  62i^. Jones,  Jud^^a  Stevens  S.,  murdered  March  15.  1877,  aged  54i/o. Jouett,  Charles  (tirst  Indian  agent  at  Fort  Dearborn),  died,  Trigg
Co.,  Kentucky,  May  28,  1834,  aged  62. Ju'-sen,  Edmund,  lawj'er,  died,  Frahkfn-t-on-the-Main,  Germanv,
Felmiary  17,  1891,  aged  60-10. Keeley,  Michael,  brewer,  dic'd  December  20.  1888,  aged  — . Keen,'Jose[)h,  jr.,  died,  Philadelphia,  P;i,,  March  5,1851,  aged  32, Keith,  Col.  Abijah,  merciiant,  died  June  29,  1890,  aged  691-2-
114    •  OBITUARY.
Keith,  Morgan  L.,  ex-nldcrman,  died  Scpv.  30,  1890,  aged  82. Keiinicott,  T)i'.  Jonatliaii  xVsa.  died  May  12,  1893,  aged  69. Keimicoti.  Joseph  E.,  died.  Arling'ton  Heights,  Cook  Co.,  111.,
January  14,  1881:,  aged  70. Kenni:ott,  Maj.  Ivobert.  natiimlist.  died,  near  Nuhito,  Alaska.  ^lav
13,  18 G 6.  aged  301  o^ Kennison,  David,  last  snrvivor  of  the  Boston  Tea-Party,  died  Feb.
21. 1852,  aged  115-3-17  ;  interi-ed  in  Lincoln  Park  about  320  feet
n.-w.  froia  the  Couch  tomb,  and  about  30  feet  east  of  the  east
line  of  North  Clark  street. ICercheval.  Louis  Cass,  d..  Hickory  Creek,  111.,  Sept.  14.  184G,  a.  52. Kimball,  James  B..  U.S.N.,  died,  Pensacota  Navy  Yard,  Fla.,  Mav
18,  1879'.  aged  43fs^'. Kimball,  Henry  R.,  died.  Cairo.  111..  November  4,  1854.  aued  45. Kimberly,  Col.  John  Ellis,  died  December  23,  1893,  aged  5-. King,  By  ram,  died
King,  John  Lyie,  hiwyer,  died  April  17,  1892,  aged  — . Kingsbury,  Henry  W.,  killed  at  Antietnm,  Sept.  17, 1892.  aged — . KiD2Sburv,  Julius  Jq:^>q  Brouson.  L^.S.A.,  died  June  26. 1856,  a.  59. Kinsley.  Hubert  M.,  caterer,  died,  New-York  City,  Sept.  22, 1894,
aged  63-0-3. Kinzie,  Ellen  Marion,  dau.  of  John  Kinzie,  and  lirst  white  child
born  in  Chicago,  Dec.  20.  1804;  nru-ried  to  Dr.  Alex.  W^olcott,
July  20,  1823,  by  John  Hamlin.  J. -P.,  of  Peoria;  laier  wife  of
Geo'.  C.  Bates;  died,  Detroit,  Mich.    Aug.  1,  1860,  aged  55-7-lL Kinzie.  Lieut.  Geo.  XL,  died,  Mt.  Vernon  barracks,  Ala.,  August
26,  IS'JO.  aged  — . Kinzie,  James,  died,  Clyde.  Iowa  Co..  Wis.,  Jan.  13,  1866,  a.  62^4'. Kinzie,  Jolm  iSha-ne-au-kei,  Indian  agent  and  trader,  ilrst  white
American  settler  at  Ciiicago,  1803;  died  Jan.  6,  1828,  a.  65-U-14. Kinzie.  John  Harris,  jr.,  died.  Ft.  vSt.  Charles,  Ark.,  June  17,  1863,
aged'24f:^ Kirk,  James  Smith,  soap  manufa2turer,  died,  So.  Evaiiston,  111.,
June  16,  1886,  aged  68. Kirkland,  Eliztibeth  Stansburv,  author  and  educator,  died  Julv
30,  I89(i,  aged  60. Kirkhmd.  Joseph,  lawyer,  di(,'d  April  20,  1894,  aged  64. Ivnickerbocker.  Judge  Joshua  C,  died  January  5,  1890.  aged  537:5. Knox,  Col.  Edward  Bui-gen.  die<l  April  9,  1890,  aged  52;  2d  ser- geant U.-S.  Zouave  Ciulets,  1860. LaframlKHse,  Alexis,  died Laframijxi-e.  Francis,  died Landj,  l*atrick,  died  before  April  9,  1857. Larneil,  Edwin  Channing,  lawyer,,  died.  Lake  Forest,  111.,  Sept.
IH,  1884,  aged  64. Lfirra])ee,  Lieut.  Lucius  Sherm.an,  killed  at  Gettysburg,  July  2,
1863,  aL'-^d  26.  .     "  '
LaSalle.  Robert  Bene  Cavelierde,  killed.  Te\a^, Mar.  is,  16.s7,a.  13.. Latrobe,  Charles  Joseph,  died  December  4,  1875,  aged  73-'J-14.
\uh
OBITUARY.  .  '       115
Launder.  Jame?,  died  August  11,  1880,  aged  67.
Laviuia.  AYni.  T.  S..  la\vvcr,  pawubroker,  died,  intestate,  Januaiy
9,  1861,  aged  — . Lfiwreuce.  Judge  Charles  Burral!, Leareiiworth,  Jesse  U.,  died,  Milwaukee,  TYis.,  March  12,  1885^
aged  "^7  7. LeBar,  Edwiu  R..  died  January  2.  I80I.  aged  — . Lebel,  Kev.  Is;idore  A.,  died.  Kalamazoo,  Mieli,,  1878,  nged  — . LeBrun.  Thomas  Francis.  YioHnist,  died  October  8,  1884,  nged  7P. Lester,  John  Threadgold.  merchant,  died  March  llj  1800.  aged  43. Lewis,  Allen  Cleveland,  capitalist,  philanthropist,  died  Oct.  15,
1877,  aged.  57-8-27. Lewis,  Joseph,  meehanical  engineer,  inventor,  died,  Kansas  City^
Mo.,  Xoveniber  17,  1894.  aged  71. Libby,  Charles  Perley,  packer,  died  June  24,  189p,  aged  57. Lincoln,  Abraliam.  assjissinated,  AYashington,  D.C.,  February  14.
1865.  aii'cd  d5. Little  Turtle.  (Indian  chief),  died  Jnly  14,  1812,  aged  — . Lloyd,  Bartholomew  F.,  died  December  7,  1886,  aged  77. Lockwood,  Judie  Samuel  Drake,  died,  Batavia,  IlL,  Apr.  23. 1874.
aired  84-8-21.^ Logan,  Gen.  Joh]i  Alex.,  died.  AYashiuLi-tou,  D.C..  Dec.  26,  '86,  a.  6L Logan,  Judge  Steplion  Trigg,  died  July  18,  18b0,  aged  80^. Loop,  Jamr-s  L..  died,  Belviilore,  111.,  February  8,  i'865,  aged  49. Long,  Stephen  llarriman,  died,  xVlton,  111..  Sept.  4, 1864.  a.  79-8-4. Lovedav,  Julius  Leopold,  died,  Tsvin  Lakes,  AYis.,  June  19,  1889,
aged  54-10-13. Loveday,  AYm.  Lockyer.  died.  Geneva.  111.,  Apr.  24,  1884,  aged  80. Lovcjov.  Rev.  Elijah  Parish,  murdered  at  Alton,  111.,  Xovember  7,
1837,' aged  35. Luddin2'tou.  Xelson.  died  Januarv  15.  1883,  aged  (ji). Lumbard,  I'ranklin  C.  "Old  Shady'',  died  Apr.  14, 1x83,  aged  57. Luse,  Ananias  Pugh,  pri  nter,  type-founder,  died,  LosAngeles,  Cab,
Januarv  IG,  1891.  aged  60. Lynch,  Thomas,  distiller,  died  September  22.  1893,  aged  67. McAllister,  Judi'-e  AYm.  K..  d..  Ravenswood.  111.,  Oct.  29, 1888,  a.  70. McAvoy,  John  1I ..  brewer,  ex-alderman,  d.  July  24, 1893,  a.  62-8-22. ^[c(;abe,  Thomas,  died  Decetid)er  23,  1883.  a2'ed  89. ^b-Chesiicy,  Robert,  difd  Feln-uary  9.  1886.  iig-ed  76. ^IcClellaii,  GcJi.  Geo.  Brinton,  died,  St.  Cloud,  Orange  Mountain,
X. J.,  October  2.^,  1885,  aged  59. McClure,  Andrew,  died,  Philadelphia.  Pa..  Oct.  20,  1860,  aged  — -. ^b:Cluie,  Josiah  E.,  suicide.  :\[ilwaukee,  AYi«.,  Oct.  12,  1888,  a.  — . McConnick,  Cvrus  Hall,  died  Mav  13.  1884,  aged  75. M<Coy,  Jif-v.  \>tuu\  died,  LouisvilierKy.,  June  21,  1846,  aged  62. ■"•f^-^'rea,  Samuel  llarkness,  ex-citv  treasurer,  died  March  11,  1891,
:iired  64-6-26. ^'Cumber,  Capt.  Francis,  sailor,  died,  Burlington,  AVis.,  April  8^
1888,  aged  821^.  .
et'
rJ':-:
Il6  ■:     ■    .    _        ■         OBITUARY.  J  ,    '       .r   ■'.
McDermott,  Michael,  siu'voyor,  died  October  10,  1888,  a,o-ed  78.
McDoiiu-all,  C4eii.  James  Allen,  died.  Albany,  N.Y.,  Sept.  o,  18G7, aged  49-^9- U.
McFall,  John,  died  Xovemher  7,  1853,  aged  — .
McFarren,  John  IT,,  died  Jnne  6,.  1882,  aged  G9.
McFayden.  Capt.  Jolin,  drowned  oti'  Death's  Door,  Lake  Mlchi- gan.  July  — ,  1852,  aged  — .
Mrllroy.  Daniel,  died  August  22,  1SG2,  aged  -^.
McKee.  David,  died  near  z^urora.  111.,  April  9,  1881,  ag'cd  SO}^.
ZMcKindiCy,  James,  grocer,  died  Marcli  31,  1896,  aged  71-1-9.
McKiudlev,  John  G.,  died.  Kenosha,  Wis.,  January  16,  1S81,  n.  C2.
:McKindley,  Aniliam,  died  March  29,  ISSO,  aged  oh.
McKiiiiia,  Bernard,  died  June  25,  1880,  aged  63i^.
McLfiUghlin,  Francis,  carpenter,  iirst  superintendent  of  Calvary CeuK'tery,  arrived  in  1844,  died  ^[ay  8,  1873,  aged.  5±.        .     •    ,'
McMullcn,  James,  died  December  Kl,  1871,  aaed  75.
McMiillen,  Kev.  John,  died,  nayeu})ort,  la.,  July  4,  1883,  a.  54-3.
Mc[loberts,  Judge  Josi:di,  died.  JoJiet,  111.,  June  2,  1885.  a-rred  7-.
McEoberts,  Senator  Samuel,  d.,  Cincinnati,  O.,  Mar.  27. 1843,  n.  44.
McVickar,  Dr.  Brockholst,  died,  Bntlalo,  N.  Y.,  October  13,  1883, .aged  74.
jSIcViclcar,  James  Hubert,  actor,  n^ianager,  d.  Mar.  8. 1896,  n.  74-0-24.
McVicl:er,  Brockholst  L.  (Wild  Edgerton),  d.  Dec.  24,  1888,  a.  ~.
Mack,  \Villiaiu  Champion,  merchant,  died  May  G,  1884,  a.  78;  with whom  Da\id  Kennison,  the  last  survivo)-  of  the  Boston  tea-])aity, came  to  Chicago  from  New  York  State  and  lived  until  his  death.
Mackin,  Thom.'is.  contractor,  died  November  16,  1893,  nged  65.
Marlde,  il'tErs.  Anna  \V;irren,  widow  of  Danford,  actress,  died,  Cin- cinnati, O.,  March  11,  1872,  aged  56-3-10.
Marble,  Dantbrd,  "  Yankee,"  comedian,  died  of  cholera,  Louisville, Ky.,  Mny  13.  1849,  aged  39-1-3.
Markoe,  Ilartman,  died.  New  York,  18 — ,  (\^rd  — .
JMarquette,  James,  died,  Lake  Michigan,  Mny  18,  1675,  aged  38,
Marsljall,  Jnmes  3I(>m"oe,  real  estate,' died  July  1,  1880,  a.':!.'ed  45-9.
Martin,  Edward,  died.  Ited  ITook,  X.Y.,  Dec.  3,  1893,  aged  82.
Ma?on,  ]\Iathias,  died,  Sutherland.  la.,  about  December  2i),  18S2, a-^ed  ^3.
Ma"«on,  Roswell  B,  C.  E.,  20th  mayor,  died  Jan.  1.  1892,  agfd  86I4'.
Matte>on,  Gov.  Joel  Aldrich,  died  January  31.  bs73,  oged  64-5-1.
Mattock.s,  John,  lawver,  died  Febru.irv  12".  issi.  ji^ed  49i.;.
Meacham,  Dr.  Silas,  dird,  Maine,  Cook  Co.,  Ill,  July  21,  1852, aged  C3.
Meadowcroft,  Kobert.  died  February  13,  1893,  aized  79.
Meadowcroft,  Thoma-^.  died  A]))-il  -Jl,  1863.  aged  73.
Meadovrcroft,jr..  Tlmma'^.  dicfl-July  28,  1852,  aged  38.
Meoduwcnjft,  Rich.srd,  died  February  4,  1877.  Mged  57.
Clears,  Jharles,  lumber,  died  May  2;>,  1895,  aged  81.'
Mediil.  James  Corbett,  writer,  died  Nov.  3,  1864,  nged  3i;-G-2.
MedilJ,  Sam.  Jones,  printer,  d.,  Quijjcy,  111.,  Feb.  20,  1883,  a.  42-3.
OBITUARY.  -  117
Mcdill,  Maj.  "Wm.  TTeuiy,  printer,  died  of  wounds,  July  16,  1863
aii-ed  2734;. Meiidel,  Edward,  died  April  4,  18S1,  aaed  56-9-11. Messer.  C  M  ,  died,  Beloit.  Wis..  Juue  1,  1885.  nged  77.
iMichie,  James,  died,  LaGrauge,  111.,  April  21,  1876,  aged  68. Mihalotzy,  Col.  Geza,d. of  wounds.  Chattauooga,  Mar.  11, 1861, a. — Miller,  Jacob,  tavern-keeper,  died,  Lona's  Bar,  Feather  Iii\  er,
Cal.,  January  1,  1850. Mills.  Luther  Laliin,  sv..  merchant,  died  Jan.  11,  1889.  aofcd  70. Mitchell.  Henry.  wao-oiim;iker,  d.,  Eacine.  Wis.,  Oct.  20,  1893,  a.  83. Moore,  Henry,  died.  Concord,  Mass.,  after  1841,  aged  — . Morgan,  James  J.,  died  August  12,  1852,  aged  — . Morgan,  John  Eobcrt.  died.  .,  1872,  aged  29.
Morgan,  Richard  Price,  died,  Dwight.  111..  Jan.  19,  1882.  aoed  92. Morgan,  Thomas,  died.  Blue  Island";  111.,  3Iarch  19,  1851,  agod  74. ^lorrisoii,  Daniel,  died  Xovember  9,  1880.  aued  61. 3Iulf<:rd,  Edward  A.,  died,  Casevville.  ]s.v.,"Apr.  19, 1852,  ao-od  42. Mulford,  E<hvard  II.,  died,  Evanston.'lll".  March  5,'  1878.  aged  84. Mulllioliand,  Mother  Mary  de  Sales  (Mother  Frances),  died,  Dav-
euport,  Iowa.  January  — ,  188'J,  aged  78.       '  •
Mulligan,  Col.  James  A.,  died  July"26.  1864,  aged  34. Mulvey,  Junius,  attorney,  died  Xavember,  1892,  aged  — . Murphy,  Edward,  died,  liogers'  Park,  January  25,  1875,  aged  70. Murphy,  Hun.  Jiicliard.  died,
Myers,  .Samuel,  distiller,  died  Xovember  5,  1882.  aged  81-10. Myers,  Samuel,  actor,  died  June  22,  1874,  aged  43. Mvers.  Simon  Groot,  died.  Baltimore.  Md..  April  9,  1893,  aized  — . Xasli,  Ilenrv  IP.  banker,  died.  Xew-York  City,  Nov.  10,  '92'.  0.  72. Xealley,  Ezra  P.,  died.  Oak  Glen,  111.,  July  3,  1885,  aged  74. Xelson,  John  A.,  ex-slieriiP  died  fall  1878,  nged  — . Xevins,  ]^rum-maj.  William,  died  March  27,  1894,  aged  61.  , X'ewhouse,  John  S.,  died  May  8,  I881',  nged  70. Xewion,  Hoi  lis.  hotel-keeper,  died  August  25,  1835,  aged  — . Xichols,  KellogL;-.  imirdered  on  P.I.  P.P..  March  13,  1886,  aged  48. Xickerson,  Solon,  merchant,  died  December  19,  1887,  aged  69. Xoble,  George  \V'..  died  Xovember  11,  18.s5,  aged  G(3. Xoble,  John,  die* I  January  13,  1885,  aged  82. Xoble,  ]\raior,  dii'd Xoblo;  Mark,  died Xoble,  ]\rark,  jr.,  died Xurris,  lienj.  F..  alias  Josepli  Thomason,  executed  in  Concord,
lro(juois  Co..  111.,  the  first  n)urder  in  Cook  Co.,  June  10,  1836. Xugent,  ]\Iich;H'l.  died  Mav  2.  1856.  aged  — . 0_-(lcji,  Wm.  L..  ]m<.  nv^v.' Tribmtr,  died  Dec.  22,  1893,  aged  52. 0"H;ira,  l^aniel,  selujolmaster,  ediior,  civil-service  clei-k,  politician,
born  Ayr,  Scotland,  Sept.  1,  1822,  died  Oct.  12,  1877,  a.  55-1-11. Olcott,  O'rville,  ship-carpenter,  died  June  5.  1890,  nged  76. O'licgan,  Kt.-P(;v.  Antlionv,  d..  London,  Lug.,  X'ov.  13, 1865,  a.—. Ouiljuctte,  Antoinc  (Ijidiau  chief),  died
8
.07  r
Il8  OBITUARY.
Ousterhoudt.  M.  G.,  died  March  27, 1884,  aged  74. Owen,  Thomas  J.  Y.  (Iiiaian  ag-ent),  died  Oct.  15, 1835,  aged  34i^. Pardee.  3Iyroii,  died,  Oswego,  N.Y.,  January  9,  1889,  aged  69. Pardridge.  Edward,  merchant,  died  April  17,  1896.  aged  59. Parker,  Samuel,  died,  Davenport,  la.,  August  ^0,  1881. Parker,  Warren,  hotel,  omnibus-line  pioneer  of  Chicago,  died.
Barre,  Orleans  County,  X.Y.,  August  11,  1851,  aged  45-10-10.' Parks,  Calvin  C,  died,  Nfaukegau.  October  20,  1860.  aged  — . Patterson.  Wm.  Jellery,  died.  Montreal,  Can.,  June  12, 1886,  a.  70^^. Pearce,  AVra.  Larned,  hotel,  died  Aug.  18.  1874,  aged  58-6-10. Pearson,  Jud2e  John,  died,  Danville,  111.,  Ma\^  30,  1875,  aged  73. Peck.  Hon.  Ebenezer,  died  Mnv  25,  1881.  aii-ed'76. Peck;  Jolm  Mason,  d..  Rock  Spring,  O'Fallon,  111.,  Mch.  15,  1858.
aged  68^-. Pestana,  John  A.,  died  February  14,  1854,  aged  48. Phillip,  Geo.  S.  (January  Searle),  died,  Morristown  (N.J.)  insane
asylum,  January  15,  1889. Phillips,  John,  portrait  painter,  born  Paisley,  Scotland,  May  8,
1822;  died,  Helena.  Mont..  Julv  '2Q,  1890,  a«-ed  68. Phillips.  Dr.  John,  oculist,  died  July  26,  1893,  aged  75-2-20. Pitkin,  We-'.ev,  died  April  11,  1880,  aaed  73. Pitney,  F.  Y.,  died  June  16,  1879,  aged  65. Plyraton.  Maj.  Joseph,  died,  Staten  Island,  N.Y.,  June  5,  1860,
aged  73. Poole,  AVilllam  Frederick,  librarian,  died  ^Marcli  1,  1894,  aged  — . Pope,  Gen.  John,  died,  Sandusky,  0.,  Sept.  22,  1892,  aged  '69-6-11. Pope,  Xathaniel,  judge,  died,  Springfield,  111.,  Jan.  14,  1850,  a.  66. Porter,  Pev.  Jereiniah,  died.  Buloit,^  Wis.,  July  25,  1893,  aged  89. Porter,  Rev.  Jonathan  G.,  died,  Naperville,  111.,  February,  1883,
aged  80. Powell,  George  X.,  died  before  January  21,  1851,  aged  — . Power,  John,  died  before  A[)ril  14,  1851,  aged  — . Powell,  ^l.  A.,  died.  Palo,  111.,  February  21,  1885,  aged  833^. Priestly,  Howard,  died  September  8,  1877,  aged  47. Prussing,  Ernst,  real  estate,  died  November  28,  1889,  aged  Z^i). Pruyne,  I'cter,  died  November,  1839,  aged  — . Pullman,  Albert  Benton,  sleeping-car  inventor,  died  December  18,
1893,  aged  69. Rand.  Socrates,  farmer,  died.  Desplaines,  111.,  Feb.  20,  1890.  a.  86. liay,  Dr.  Charles  Henry,  editor,  died  Sept.  23,  1870,  aged  49}4. Raymond,  R<^v.  Lewis,  died  December  10,  18«7,  aged  80. Read,  Leundci-,  liquors,  died  April  26,  18^8,  aged  67. ]led-Bird  (Indian  chief),  d.,  Prairie-dn-Chicn,  Feb.  16, 1828,  a.  — . Reed.  Alanson,  music,  diod  February  25,  1893.  a^-ed  78. Reed,  Col.  Cbarles  :Manninu-,  died,  Erie,  I'cnn.,  Dec.  16,  1871,  m.  ^^^. Reid,  Robert,  banker,  died.'  Cincinnati,  O..  Oct.  11,  1892,  air^d  62. Rexfurd,  llcber  S.,  di<'d.  Blue  Island,  III.,  :\[arch  6,  1<^85,  aijcd  76. Rcxford,  Norman,  dii;d.  Blue  [.-land,  ill.,  :\l;trch  28,  1883,  aged  81. Rexford,  Stephen,  died,  Blue  Island,  111.,  October,  1880,  aged  76.
Kl-^f  .0  i>n
OBITUARY.  119
ReyiioLl^,  Gov.  John,  died  May  8,  1865.  aged  77-2-12.    ' Khines.  Georso.  died  ]May  12.  185-1.  aged  19K.
Eice,.  Joliii  A.,  prop.  Tremont  Honse.'died  ^Larcli  21, 1888.  aged  59. KiceJ  Jo]in  Ijlake,  actor.  19tli  niayoi-j  died,  Norfolk,  Va.,  2sov.  18,
ISH.  aged  G5I0'. Rice,  Marv  Ann  Warren,  ^y\d.  of  John  B..  died,  Coronado  Beach,
Ca).,  March  29,  18'J3.  aiied  74. Richmond.  Holland,  died  June  17.  1893,  aged  Qo. Richmond,  Thomas,' d.,  AVoodstock,  Yt.,  Apr.  20,  1892,  a.  9i-l-12. Robbins.  Alleji.  died  October  3,  1864,  aged  70. Robertson,  John,  died  before  January  i,  1852,  aged  — . Robinson,  Alex.  (Indian  chief),  died,  on  his  Reservation,  April  22,
1872,  aged  S3. Roo-ers,  Dr.  Edward  Carter,  died,  Quincv,  Mich.,  Feb.  19,  1887,
aged'GG-9-23. Rogers.  Judge  John  Gorin.  died  January  10,  1887,  aged  — . Roles,  Rev.  Jos-^ph  P.,  died  September  25,  1889,  aged  59. Root,  Geo.  Frederick,  musical  composer,  died  Aug.  6.  1895.  a.  75. Root,  John  Wellborn,  architect,  died  Jaiiuary  15.  1891,  aged  41. RootJ  Josiali  Sackett.  died.  Builalo,  X.Y.,  April  28.  1884,  aged  — . ]iose,  Orrin  J.,  died.  Xew  York,  May  14,  1873,  aged  — . Rosenfeld.  Levi,  mercliant.  died  August  17.  1887,  aged  72. Rounds.  Sterling  P.,  printer,  d.,  Omaha,  Xeb.,  Dec.  17, 1887,  a.  591^- Runnion.  David,  died  July  17,  1880,  aged  75. Rutter,  Jo-eph  Orms])y.  banker,  died.  October  4,  1888,  aged  — , Ryan,  Judiie  Edward  'Geor2e,  died,  Madison,  ^Yis.,  October  19,
1880.  agf'd  GP-11-6. Ryder,  Itev.  AVilliam  Henry,  died  March  7,  1888,  aged  66,1,;. Ryerson,  Martin,  capital  ist.  died,  Boston,  Mass.,  Sept.  6, 1887,  a.  692^ Saint  Cvr.  Rev.  John  Marv  Ireneus,  died,  Caronclalet,  Mo..  Feb.
21,  I8S3;  aued  80 1^. Sands,  Josiali  J.,  brewer,  died,  Hartland.  AYis.,  Apr.  24,  1890.  a.  60. Sard,  Grange,  sen.,  clothici-.  died  February  25,  1884,  aged  73. Scates,  Ex-Cliief  Justice  Walter  Bennett,  died  Evanston,  111..  Oct.
26,1.^86,  aged  7S-f. Scammon,  Charles  T.,  diod.  Eluin,  111.,  August  23,  1876,  aged  36. Scammon,  Dr.  Franklin,  died  February  10,  1861,  aged  53-4-13. Schafrner,  Herman,  banker,  suicide,  June  3,  1893,  aged  — . Schnideau,  I'olycarpus  von,  died  Dccendjoi'  27,  1859,  aged  47. Schoemakei-,  Josepii.  died  before  May  18,  1850.  aged  — . Schreiner.  John  T.,  died  January  16.  1849,  aged  — . Scott,  James  W..  publisher  Thncs-irerahL  died.  New- York  City, ^  April  4,  1895,  ;iged  45-10. Scott,  Col.  Joseph  Rolx'rt,  r.ith  llHnoi-^  \^tls..  wounded  at  Stone's
River,  died  Julv  ^,  1?56;),  a.  25-5-6;  1st  lieutenant  U.-S.  Zouave
Cadets.  lS6't. Scott,  Maj.  :\Iartin.  U.S.A..  died  near  Mollno  del  Rev,  Mex..  Sept.
8,  1847.  ao-ed  52. ' Scott.  Willai-d,  died,  Napcrville,  111.,  SepL  13,  1892,  aged  81.
pi  I
[-i-iV.
I20  OBITUARY.
Scott,  Gen.  Winfield,  died.  West  Point,  X.Y..       18G6,  a.  79-11-16. Scribner.  Col.  Wiley  S.,  recorder,  died  Sept.  28,  1889,  a^ed  40. Scripps,  John  Locke,  printer  and  editor,  died,  Minneapolis,  Minn.,
September  21,  I860,  aiiod  -481.2. Sear>.  Jr..  John,  drniioist.  died.  Lockport.  111.,  Jan.  25, 1867,  a.  54. See.  Rev.  Win.,  died,^  Pulaski,  Iowa  Co..  Wi>;.,  Aug.  20,  1858,  a.—. Seifert.  Charles,  killed  at  tlie  7tli  ward  ]iolls,  March  o.  1857,  a.  — . Scipp.  Conrad,  brewer,  died  January  28.  1890.  aged  64^.<'. Shiibonee,  (Indian  chief),  died,  Morris,  111.,  July  17, 1859,  aged  83. Shaw:  Peter,  died,  Fisli  Creek,  AVis.,  3Iar.  3,  188 1,  aged  68-11-11. Sheahan.  James  Washington,  editorial  writer,  Chicago  Tribune,
died  June  17,  I880,  aged  59 1^. Sheldon.  Edward  Holmes,  real  estate,  died.  New- York  Citv,  Dec.
19,  1890,  iigL'd  71. Shepley,  Capt.  Charles  II.,  died,  Murfeesboro,  Tenn.,  March  23, '    1862,'  aged  21. Sheridan,  Gen.  Philip  Henry,  died,  Nouquit,  Mass.,  Aug.  5,  1888,
aged  57.5. Shields.  Gen.  and  Senator  James,  died,  Ottumwa,  la.,  Jane  1,
1879,  aged  73. Shipman,  r)r.  Georire  E..  died  Januarv  20,  1893.  a^ed  73. Shirley,  Thos.  OV.  Z.  O.  Fleshmau),  lawyer,  d.  Mar.  10, 1889,  a.  68. Shirup.  M.,  died,  Crvstal  Lake.  111.,  Anizust  31,  1882.  aged  72. Shover,  Cyrus,  died,  Ottawa,  111.,  Febritary  21,  1883,'agx3d  70. Shuinan,  ex-G<n^.  Anvlrew,  editor,  died  May  5,  1890,  aged  60. -Shumu'ay,  Edward  S.,  lawyer,  died,  Essex,  N.Y.,  Sex)t.  21,  1853,
aged  35. Shumway,  Horatio  G.,  died  about  December  16,  1862,  ag<'d  — . ^Sibley,  liiram.  seedsman,  d.,  Rochesler,  N.Y.,  Jul^"^  12,  1>588,  a.  81-5. Sinclair,  James,  tinsn)ith,  died  August  13,  1871,  aued  70, Slater,  Ifichard,  died  August  1,  1890,  aged  69. Smailes,  Samuel,  di<'d  Xovember  1'9.  1882,  aged  — . Smith,  Albert  Paul.  manaLivr  clcaring-iiouse,  d.  Jan.  22, 1890,  a.  50. Smith.  Lieut.  Ephraim  Ivirbv,  U.S.A.,  died  near  Citv  of  Mexico,
September  11,  1847.  aged  41. Smith,  r.eorge  Clinton  idit  Ciias.  G.),  tailor,  d.  Sept.,  1888,  a.  67I4. Smith,  John  liradner,  naper,  died  March  6,  1893,  aged  75. Smith,  Perry  Ilonry,  la\v'y<'i',  died  March  29,  1885.  aged  57. Smith,  Solomon  Albert,  baid^er,  dl(>d  Xov.  'lb,  1879,  aged  64. Smith.  William  I>un-,  Ijardware,  -Powhattan,''  died  Xov.  28, 1894,
aged  59-9-25. Snell,  Amos  Jerome,  cipitalist,  munlcred  Eeb.  2,  1838,  aged  64. Soules.  liufus,  died,  Waukcuan,  111.. SpaldiJiL!'.  Joel  Johnson.  ])rinte;r,  killed  on  railroad  at  Evanston,
III.,  :Jarch  7,  ls89,  ivx^'d  52. Spencer,  Albert  Tuttle,  lake-captain,  died,  Waukegan,  111.,  Sept.
11,  1895,  aged  74-4-5. Speu'-er,  Emnklin  E;i,yetfe,  hardware,  died  Nov.  1,  1890,  a.  73-19. Spring,  Dr.,  died  November  10,  1835,  aged  — .
i  •  •
'...j.-.-.-v
■  •<:(  .c.  .rnA
!    Mil'
j>.  n
OBITUARY.  ,  121
Sproat,  Granville  Tomple,  school-teacher, died,  Mt.  Lebanon,  X.Y.,
February  6,  1887,  aged  79. Squires,  Collins  S.,  a>s-t-p.m.,  died  October  10,  1888,  aged  59.  . Stager.  Gen.  An<on.  died  March  2i').  1885,  aged  GO. Starr,  Dr.  John  V.,  died,  Glencoe,  111.,  March  12,  1373,  aged  — . Steel,  George,  died  March  22,  1865.  aged  68. Steele,  Ashbel.  died  1861,  aged  — .
Steele,  Chas.  lUehards,  banker,  d..  Waukegan,  111.,  Nov.  11,  '88.  a.  — . Stein,  Martin,  died  before  September  21,  1850,  aged  — . Stewart,  Thomas  Alexander,  attorney,  editor  and  prop.  Clu'cago
Tribune,  died,  LaPorte,  Ind.,  September  15,  1868,  aged  — . Stickney,  Edward  S.,  died  March  20,  1880.  aged  — . Stiles,  Gen.  Israel  Xewton,  lawyer,  died  Jan.  17, 1895,  aged  Gl-6-1. Stinison,  William  E.,  died,  ^lichioan  Citv,  Ind.,  December  2o.
1850,  aged  26. Stone,  John,  the  first  man  Imn^'  in  Chicago  for  nuirder,  near  ^.-w.
cor.'  South  Park  av(\  and  31st  st.,  July  10,  1810,  aged  about  50. Stone,  Leander,  editor.  <lied  April  3,  1888,  aued  bb. Stone,  Pev.  Luther,  died  July  0.  1890,  aged  71^^. Stone.  Dr.  Sanmel.  died  May  4.  1876,  ag-ed  — . Stoneham,  John,  died  ]\[arch  17.  1887,  aged  73. Storkev,  George,  died  September  -1.  1877,  aged  74. Storey',  AMI ber  F.. editor  Chimrio  Timcs.d^Ooi.  27, 1884, a.  64-10-8. Storrs.  Emery  Alex.,  Inwyer,  d.,  Ottawa.  III.,  Sept.  12,  1885.  a.  50. Stroni:-.  Gen.  William  Emerson,  lawver,  lumberman,. died,  Firezze,
Italy,  April  10,  1891,  aged  50-8. Strother,  Bolton  F..  lawvei",  died  June  17,  1862,  aged  — . Stuart,  Gen.  David,  died.  Detroit,  Mich.,  Sept.  11, 1868,  aged  48-6. Stuart.  John  Todd,  died,  Spriniztleld,  111.,  Nov.  2S,  1885,  aized  78. Stuarl,  Pobert,  explorer,  died  Oct.  2S,  1848,  aged  63-8-9. Sturges,  Geo.,  btinker,  d.,  Geneva  Lake,  AVis.,  Aug.  12, 1890.  a.  52i^. Sturges,  Solomon,  banker,  patriot,  died,  Zanesvillc,  O.,  October  14,
1864,  aged  6b-5-23. Sturges,  Wm..  banker,  d.,  Oweo-o,  N.Y.,  Nov.  12,  1894,  a.  70-5-16. Sundell,  Chas.  J.,  ag't  Allan  Line,  died  Julv  26,  1892,  aged  70. Sutherland,  St.  Clair,  died  December  8,  1892,  aged  76-3. Svanoc,  Peter,  Noi-wegian  consul,  died  ^Marcli  2'),  1893,  aged  53. Swearing-en,  Col.  James  S.,  died,  Chillicothe.  O.,  February,  1864,
aged  82. Sweet  Plchard  ^I..
Swett,  Leonard,  lawver,  died  June      ,  1889, Talcott,  Edward  Benton,  died  February  B,  1886,  aged  74. Talcott,  Mancfl,  died  June  5,  1878,  aged  60^:^. Tjivlor,  An-^on  If.,  died.  Lakeside,  May  9,  1878,  aged  — . Taylor,  f'.enj.  F..  dird.  Cleveland",  Ohio,  Feb.  21,  1887,  aged  i\^: Tavlor,  Charles  A.,  trunks,  died  August  3,  1892,  aged  56. Taylor,  Col.  Edmund  Dick,  died  December  4.  1891,  aged  89-1-26. Taylor,  Jame>,  lumber  agent,  died  Mav  7,  1867.  ag(Ml  39. Temple,  Dr.  Peter,  died,  Lexington,  Mo.,  March  18,  1889,  aged  — .
:<)  '!•
122  OBITUARY.
Thielcke.  Henry  Daniel,  artist,  died  November  25,  1874,  aged  87. Tliomns,  Judge  Jesse  Burgess,  jr.,  died  February  21, 1850.  aged  44] Tho^iias,  Jesse  Burgess,  judge  and  senator,  died,  Mt.  Vernon,  O.,
1853,  aged  76. Thompson,  Lieut.  Setli,"died.  Ft.  Dearborn.  Mar.  4,  1811,  aged  — . Thompson.  Gen.  John  Leverett,  lawyer,  died  Jan.  31,  18SS,  a.  53. Thom-on,  James,  painter,  died  Jauuarv  16,  1888,  aged  74i;<. Titsworth.  Abraham  D..'died  October' 10,  1882,  aged  62. Tobey.  Orville  Ilurd,  packer,  died  April  25,  1893,  aged  70. Tontv.  Henri  de,  died.  Fort  St.  Louis,  Mobile  Bav,  1704,  aaed  54. Trowbridge.  Alva,  died  February  20,  18S4.  aged  80. Trumbull,  George,  lawyer,  died  October  23,  1888,  aged  70. Trumbull,  Lvman,  lawver,  ex-seiiator,  d.  June  25, 1896.  a.  82-8-13. Tucker,  Col.  Joseuh  Ilenrv.  d.,  New- York  Citv,  Oct.  22, 1804.  a.  75. Turner,  Surg.  Geo.  F..  d.  Corpus  Christie,  Tex.,  Oct.  17, 1854,  a.—. Tyler,  Orson,  tailor,  died  Februarv  2.  1856,  aired  43)^. Uhlich,  Carl  Gottfried,  gardner,  died  Nov.  19,  1867,  aged  86. Vail,  "\Valter,  merchant,  died,  Newberg,  N.Y.,  Feb.      ,  1889,  a.  74. Valentine,  John  Ross,  died  October  1,  1892,  aged  70. VanAllen,  Capt.  Henry,  sailor,  died,  St.  Ignace,  Mich.,  Jan.  25,
1883,  ag-ed  80. VanArman,  Col.  John,  lawyer,  died,  San  Diego,  Cal.,  April  6,
1890,  aged  70. VanBuren,  Judge  Evert,  died  February  12,  1885,  aged  8II4. Van  der  Bogart,  Dr.  Henry,  died,  Naperville,  111.,  April  8,  1835,
aged  25.   "^ Vanetta,  James,  tobacconist,  d.  Jancsville,  Wis.,  May  19, 1890,  a. — . VanXortwick,  John,  contractor,  d.,  Batavia,  111.,  Apr.  12, 1890,  a.  81. VanVoorhi>,  Dr.  Isaac,  massa''red,  August  15,  1812,  aged  22i<. Van  de  Velde,  Rt.-Uev.  Jas.  Oliver,  d.'  Natchez,  Miss.',  1855,  a^.  — . Vauslian,  Jolm  C,  editor  Tr/hime,  died,  ^ya\u.ut  Hills,  Cincinnati,
0.7  September  27,  1892,  aged  66. Vernon.  AVm.,  auditor  111.  Cent.  Ky,  died  Feb.  5,  1884,  aged  81. Volk.  Leonard,  sculptor,  died,  Oceola,  Wis.,  Aug.  19,  1895,  aged  — . AVabansee,  (Indian  chiel"),  died,  Boonvilie,  Mo.,  fall  1846,  aged  80. Wait,  John  Frederick,  died,  Fargo,  Dak.,  June  20,  1883,  aged  80. Wait.  Solomon,  died,  York.  Mo..\\[arch  21,  1883,  aged  81. AVait,  Timothy  Robinson,  died,  Racine,  Wi^.,  April  9,  1857,  ag.  49. AYalkei',  George  E.,  died  November  9,  1874,  aged  — . AValker,  Senator  George  H.,  died,  Milwaukee,  A\^is.,  September  20,
1866,  a'i-ed  r)r>. Walk.-r,  Rev.  Jas.  B.,  died.  Wheaton,  III,  March  6,  1887,  ngod  82. AYalker,  Ilev.  Jesse,  died,  12  m.  w.  of  Chicago,  Oct  5,  1835,  aged  69. AYalkor.  Saniuol  J.,  died  April_15,  1884,  aged  57-3. AYallac-e,  John  Seelev,  died  D(>rember  21.  1878,  ai>cd  67. AVallin,  Charles  C,  leather,  died  June  9,'  1896,  aged  92. Ward.  Capt.  Eber  B.,  died.  Detroit,  Aricli.,  Jan.  2,  1871,  aged  62. Ward.  Sister  Mary  Francis  (MiMher  Francis),  died AVarreii,  Harry,  actor,  son  of  Henry,  died  May  2,  1896,  aged  41.
OBITUARY.  123
Warren,  Hciii'v,  theatrical  manag-er.  died  Feb.  21,  1894,  aged  80. Warren,  Hooper,  printer,  died,  Mendota,  III.,  Au2r.  22,  1864,  a.  74. AYarren,  Col.  Julins  M.,  died.  Xaperville,  111.,  May  1,  1893,  a.  83. Warren.  AYm..  actor,  died.  Boston,  Mass..  Sept.  21. 188S,  agx'd  75^. Washbnrue.  Elihu  Benjamin,  died  October  22.  1887,  a;>*ed  71. Watkins,  John,  died,  Joliet,  Will  Co..  111..  March  1, 1887,  a.aed  85. Watson,  ReY.  James  V..  editor  y.-W.  Christian  Advocate,  died
October  27,  1856.  a2"ed  42. Webb,  Gen.  James  Watson,  died.  X.-Y.  City,  June  7, 1884,  a.  82)^. Weber,  Rudolph,  caterer,  died  March  24,  1891,  aged  55. Weir,  George  Edwin,  died  February  11,  1886,  aged  50,^;:^. Welch,  Benjamin  C  died.  England.  December  lo,  1857,  aged  — . Welch,  llem-y.  died  December  26.  1882.  aged  65. Wellmaker,  John,  died,  Hickory  Creek,  111.,  first  German  in  Chi- cago, (baker). Wells,  Joseph  B..  ex-lieut.-gov..  d..  N.  Y.  City,  Dec.  26, 1855,  a.  — . Wells,  Capt.  Willinm,  killed  August  15,  lsl2,  at  the  massacre  of
Chicngo.  aged  about  43. Wells,  Prof.  William  Harvey,  died  January  21,  1885,  aged  73. Wentworth,  Elijah,  died,  St.  Jo.,  Mich.,  Xov..  1863,  aged  87. AYentM'orth,  jr.,  Elijah,  died,  Galesburg,  111.,  November  18,  1875,
aged  72. Wheeler.  Hiram,  elevators,  died  November  22,  1892,  aged  83. Wheeler,  KusscU.  died,  Milwaukee.  Wis. AYheeler,  Dr.  Tolman,  philanthropist,  capitalist,  died  November
20,  1889,  aged  88. AYheelock,  Otis  Leonard,  architect,  died,  San  Jose,  Cal.,  January
23.  1893,  ao-ed  77. Whistler,  Major  John,  died,  Bellefontaine,  Mo.,  Sept.  3, 1827,  a.  73. Whistler,  John  Harrison,  born  in  Fort  Dearborn,  October  7, 1807,
died.  Burliniiton.  Kansas.  October  23,  1873.  aged  66. Whistler,  Col.^Yilliam,  died,  Newport,  Ky.,'Dec.  21,  1863,  a.  79. White,  Gen.  Julius,  dic<l.  So.  Evanston,  111'.,  May  12,  1890,  a.  73i^. ^Yhitehead,  Rev.  Henry,  died  April  1<>,  1885,  aged  75. Whitehouse,  Bi-hop  Henry  John,  died  August  10,  1874,  aged  61. AVillson,  James  Lawrence,  murdered  at  \Yiimetka,  111.,  February
12,  1884.  aged  72. AYillson,  Solomon  McNeil,  died  South,  Februarv  11, 1867,  aged  48. Wilson,  Chas.  Lush,  died,  San  Antonio.  Tex.,  March  9. 1878.  a.  60. AYilson,  Geo.  F..  died.  East  Providence,  R.L.  Jan.  19, 1883,  aged  64. AYiJson,  Henry  Lush,  died  September  2,  1861,  aged  33. Wilson,  Jolm  M<:Ncil,  died  at  Eniilewood.  Dec.^7,  1883,  aged  81. AYilson,  John  Quintard,  died  May  11,  1863,  aocd  82i^. AYilson,  Richar<l  Lush,  died,  Albany,  N.Y.,  Dec.  17.  1856,  aged  42. Wilson,  Judge  Robert  Stacy,  died  December  23,  1882,  aged  71. AYolcott,  Dr.  Alexander,  Indian  agent,  died  Oct.  25,  1830,  aged  40;
his  will  was  the  first  probated  in  Cook  County. AYood.  Col.  Ja.>.  Honrv,  museum  manager,  died,  Adrian,  Mich.,
October  21,  1892,  aged  71.
f^.l
■rii'.UiM'X^
124  OBITUARY.
^Vood,  Peter  Preston,  died  186C,  aged  — .
"\Voodard,  Willntd,  teacher,  died  March  19.  1891.  aged  66-3-7. "Woodbury  (Perriiii;  Sarah  Steele,  actress,  died  Feb.  19.  I<s88,  a.  52. AVork,  Henry  Clay,  printer,  composer,  died,  Hartford,  Conn.,  June
8.  1881,  aijed  51-8-7. AVright,  Abner  Mills,  com.  mer..  died  Oct.  19,  1890,  aged  62-8-26. "Wright,  James,  undertaker,  died  February  16,  1880,  aged  61. Wright,  John,  died  September  20.  1810,  aged  57. Wrighti  Dea.  John,  died  September  20,  1810,  aged  57. "Wright.  Robert  C,  real  estate,  died  December  oO,  1879,  aged  6fj. AYriS-hti  Sanuiel  F.,  livery,  d.  Dunstable,  Mass.,  Oct.  27, 1892,  a.— .- Wright.  Truman  G..  died,  1855.
Wyman,  Col.  John  Baker,  killed  Chickasaw  Bayou,  Dec.  28,  1862,
aged  45-5-16. Wyncuop,  Henry  A.,  died  January  26,  1385,  aged  75. Yates.  Gov.  Richard,  died,  Barnum's,  St.  Lous,  Mo.,  November  27,
1873,  aged  5S-10-9.
If  YOU  can  supply,  an  omission,  correct  a
name,  add   a   date   or  a  number,  please    forward   same  for insertion  in  a  later  edition,  to
ROBERT    FERGUS,  Compiler, Blanks  furnished  on  application.        185  Illinois  St.,  Chicago.
FERGUS    PRINTING    COMPANY.    CHICAGO.
DRAMATIC    STUDENTS'
VADE    MECUM.
Dramas,  Comedies,
Comprising  Selections  from  the  most  popular  Tragedies,  Plays',  E
Faices.  Burlettas.  etc.:  carefiiMy  arranged  and  especially  adapted  to  the  use  of  Teachers  and  Students if  the  i'ramat-c  Art,  Amateur  Ci'jbs,  and  Parlor  Reprc--entations,  wiih  a  full  description  of  Characters, ^cer.er>%  Costumes,  etc.  By  Willia.m  McF.-\rland,  Professor  of  Rhetoric,  Elocution,  and  the  Dramatic Art.  1885.     Pp.  200;  Svo.     Paper.     Parts  Land  II.,,  each,  35  cents.
Tbe  Gentle  Shepherd.     A  Pastoral  Comedy.     By  Allan  Ramsay.     With  a  short  Sketch cf  the  Author,  and  a  Glossary' of  Scottish  Words.     Pages  96;  24010.     13S3.        Paper,  25  cts.     Cloth,  30  cts.
FERGUS'  HISTORICAL  SERIES-Coutiimed  from  last  page ;
IS.
Chicago  River -and -Harbor  Convention;
'u!y  5,  6,  and  7,  1347.  An  Account  of  its  Origin  and Proceedings,  by  Wm.  Mosley  Hall  (portrait^,  John »Ve.vt WORTH,  Sam'l  Lisle  S:nTH,  Horace  Gree- 1.EY,  Tkurlow  Weed;  and  a  List  of  Delegates;  to- r-ither  v.ich  Statistics  concerning  Chicago,  by  Jesse B.  Thomas  and  Ja-mes  L.  Barton.  Compiled  by RoEEET  Fergus.     Pp.  208:  Svo.     1S82.     Price,  $1.
10.
Reminiscences  of  Early  Chicago  (1833). By  Charles  Cleaver.    Pp.52;  Svo.    1S82.    25 , cts.
20.
A  Winter  in  the  West.     By  Chas.  Fenno
Hc-kman  (portrait).  London,  1835.  Reprint,  with Adaiiional  Notes.     Pp.  56:  Svo.     1882.     Price,  50c.
21.
John  Dean  Caton,  LL.D.,  ex-Chief-Justice
f  Illinois.  Biographical  Sketch  of  Portrait.  By ■    bEM  Fekgls      pp.  48;  8vo.     T?82.      Price  25c.
22.
J^ecollections  of  Early  Chicago  and  the 'jlinois  Bar.  By  Hon.  I^aac  N.  Aknold.  Read ii.t>Cay  Lvening,  Jure  10,  i8£o.
teconections  of  the  Bench  and  Bar  of  Ceotral ••iitois.  By  Hon.  Lames  C.  Conkling,  of  Spring- *tji.     Read  Jan.  i2,"'i88i.
*^t  Lawyer  as   a   Pioneer.      By   Hon.  Thomas
rf'->N£  (portrait).     Read  at  Fairbank  Hall.  Thurs-
^y  tvening,  Feb.  10,  1S81.     Pp  108;  Svo.  1382.75c.
Bar-Association  Edition,  Royal  8vo.,  $1
23.
•"•ir:y  Illinois  Railroads:  A  Paper,  read -'■«  the  Chic  Hist.  Scc'y,  Tuesday  evening,  Feb. '■'--:.  Bv  W.M.  K.  AcKEKMAN,  prciideut  of  the '--!<i.  R.R  Notes  by  Hon.  Joh.n  Wentworth. *n  Appendi.\  with  the  Breese-Douglas  Corres- -^r.ce  on  the  Inception  and  <jri;;in  of  the  111.- '  i<.  R.,  and  the  Origin  of  Names  of  Stations I'.e  lii  -Cent.  R.R.      Pp.  174;  8vo.    ic.24.  $r.
24.
John    Wentworth's    Congressional  j
■  '  ■■r.ibcer.ces.  Sketches  of  John  Quincy  Adams,  | >  H  Benton.  John  C.  Calhoun,  Henry  Clay, l-»ar.iei  Webster.  An  Address  read  before  the -?'■'  Historical  Society,  at  Central  Music-Hall, ■'  ''iy  Eve,  March  16,  1282.  With  an  Appendix -*  complete  Index.     Pp.  ioi;Svo.     1882.     75  cts.
25.
■'•Ko  Business  Directory  and   Statis-
■'^'  1840,      By  J.  \v    N'.iins.      Revised  and -'.:ej1  Sy  Rop^E?.:    FLKGi'i,.      Reprint.     Pp.  72; '^■^•*  Price,  50  cents.
20.      .
^  g>nes  of  the   Ohio  Valley;    A  Dis-
t  the  ieque--t  of  the  Hii-
''    cocjf-tv
i-  ic   ai
Rv     U'ltttAw     H,
Harklson,  Maj.-Gen.  U.-S.  Army,  President  of the  United  States,  etc.  With  N'otes  by  Edward Everett,  and  an  Appendix.     Also,
Speeches  delivered  in  General  Council  at  Ft.  VV'.'^.yne, Sept.  4,  1811,  by  Chiefs  of  the  Miamie  Indians,  in answer  to  Gen.  Harrison,  Governor  of  Indi.ina  Ter- ritory, etc.;  also,  something  about  the  History, Manners,  and  Customs  of  the  Northv.-estern Indians,  from  MSS.,  supposed  to  be  in  the  hand- writing of  Capt  V»'iiliam  Wells.  V/ith  Introduction and  Notes  by  H.  W.  Beckwith.  Pp.  96;  Svo,  1884. Price,  50  cents. .<«  «  .
The  Illinois  and  Indiana  Indians.     By  H,
W.  Eeckvvith  of  Danville.    Pp.  96,  8vo.    1884,    50c.
2S.
Chicago  Directory,  1843.  Canvassed  by  Jas. Wellington  Norms.  Revised  and  Corrected,  with numerous  omitted  Additions,  etc.,  by  Robert  Fer- GLS.     Pp.  i28;8vo.     1S96.     Cloth  $1.50;  paper  $1.00
Joseph   Duncan,  fifth  Governor  of  lliinols;
Biograpliical    Sketch    of      By    his    daughter,    Mrs.
JULL-V    DUNC.\.N    Kl.RBV.      lUus.     Pp.  o6 ;   Svo.      1S88,
Price,  50  cents.
30.
Massacre  at  Chicago,  Aug.  15,  1812.  By- Mrs.  John  H.  Kinzie.  Reprint  (1844).  with  addi- tional notes  and  index.  Illustrated.  Pp.  ^:  Svo. i3-.  '  (in  Press)  Price,  $
31.
Early  Illinois  — Part  I:  Pierre  Menard (porirait)  and  Pierre-Menard  Papers;  !  y  K.  G. Maso.n'.  Noel  le  Vasseur  (portrait);  by  S.  R. Mo{)RE.  Lists  of  Early  Illinois  Citizens;  by E.  G.  MAiO.N'.     Pp.  98;  Svo.     1890.    Price,  50  cents.
32.
Early  lllinois---PARr  11:  John  Rice  Jones
(portrait).  Brief  Sketch  of  the  first  practising  Liv.yer in  Illinois.  And  a  Brief  Memoir  of  Rice  Jones, the  last  representative  of  Randolph  County  in  the General  Assembly  <  f  Indiana  Territory',  a  the  Vic- "  tim  of  an  Historical  'J'ragedy  of  Early  Iliiuois.  By W.  A.  Bl'KT  Jo.nes  of  St.  Paul,  Minn.
Pp.  56;'8vo.     1889.         Price,  50  cents.
33.
Early  Illinois— Part  TII:  The  John-Todd Papers  and  John  Todd's  Record-Book.     V.y  E.
G.  M/SON".         Pp.  76,  Svo.     ibig.      Price,  50  cents.
3  1.
Early  Illinois  —  Part  IV:  Philippe  de Rocheblave  and  JRocheblavc  Papers,  Iliriorl- cal  Sketch  and  Notes  ly  E.  G.  Mason.  Court  of Enquiry  at  Fort  Cbartres.  Introductory  SkcJch bv'  l''HN-  Mose-S.  Ai^o  ;i  complete  Index  fur  Parts 1     i'l     in.  and  IV.    I'tj.   ic6:   8vo.    i8ao     f'rire.  co  cis
.\m
I  NIG  TO  CHICAG
■J  i\,  X  xLi  o  :
3.
Annals  of  Chicago:  A  Lecture  read  before the  Ch.ica,c;o  Lyco.ini,  Jan.  21,  1S40.  By  Joseph N.  Balesttks.  Esq..  Republished  from  the  origi- nal edition  of  1S40,  with  an  Introduction,  written by  the  Author  in  1876:  and,  also,  a  Review  of  the Lecture,  published  in  the  Chicago  Tri'ciine,  in  iSja. Po.  48;  Svo.     iFjo.  Price,  2^  cents.
Fergus'  Director^'  of  the  City  of  Chicago, 1839;  *''th  City  and  County  Otiicers,  Churches, Public  Buildings.  Hotels,  etc. :  also,  list  of  SheriiTs of  Cook  County  and  Mayors  cf  the  City  since  their organization:  together  with  the  Poil-hst  of  the  First City  Election  (Tuesday,  May  2,  1037).  List  of  Pur- chasers of  Lots  in  Fort-Dearborn  Addition,  the  No. of  the  Lots  and  the  prices  paid,  etc..  etc.  (Histori- cal Sketch  cf  City  compiled  for  Directory  of  1S43, etc  )  Compiled  by  Robert  Fekgc-s.  Pp.  6i\  Svo. lijo.  Price,  50  cents.
3.
The  Last  of  the  Illinois;  and  a  Sketch  of the  Pottawatomies:  A  Lecture  read  before  the Chicago  Historical  Society,  Dec.  13,  1S70.     Also,
Origin  of  the  Prairies:  A  Leciure  read  before  the Ottawa  Acadc-;  y  of  Natural  Sciences,  Dec.  30,  1869. By  Hon.  JvK.v  Dk.a.n  Cato.v,  LL.D.,  ex -Chief- Justice  of  I'lii.ois.  Pp.  50;  Svo.  IC76.  Price,  25  cts. 4.
Early  Movenr-nt  in  Ulinois  for  the  Legal- ization of  Slavery :  .An  Historical  Sketch  read  at the  Annual  Meezin^  of  the  Chicaeo  HLstorical  Socie- ty, Dec.  5.  i;:'4.  i>y  Hon.  W.m.  H.  Ekovn.  Pp.  32; cvo.     iSj'r.  Price,  25  cents.
Biographical   Sketches  of  Early   Settlers
of  Chicago.  Part  t:— Hon.  S.  Li^:e  Smith,  Geo. r>?vis.  r>r.  Phillin  Ma.Kwell,  John  J.  r'.rov.n.  Richard L.  V/ilson,  Col.  Lewis  C.  Kerchival,  Uriah  P.  Harris, Henry ~B.  Chrke,  and  Sheriff  Sanii'.e!  J.  Lowe.  By W.  H.  B'jbH.sELi..    Pp.  48;  Svo.    1076     Price,  25  cts.
Biographical  Sketches  of  Early  Settlers of  Chicago.  Part  IL— Hon.  W'ni.  !;.  Lrown,  with Ponraic,  C  W.  Raymond,  Esq.,  with  Portrait,  Hon. J.  Y.  Scamrnon,  Chas.  Walker,  Esq.,  Thos.  Church, Esq.      Pp.  4S;  Svo.      1676.;  Price,  25  cents.
"     7.
Early  Chicago :  A  Sunday  Lecture  read  in McConnick's  Mull,  May  7th,  1876.  With  Supple- mental Notes.  2d  Lecture.  By  Hon.  Johv  We.vt- V.    rtTH.    Portrait.    Pp.  =6;  Svo.    1S7C.     Price,  35  cts.
Early  Chicago :  A  Sunday  Lecture  read  in McCcrmick's  Mall,  April  11,  \'>-:>ni.  With  Supple- mental Notes,  ist  Lecture.  By  Hor.  ]< •H's.  We.nt- woHTH.    Portrait.    Pp.  48;  Svo.    1S7':.  "  Price,  35  cts.
Present  and  Future  Prospects  of  Chicago :
An  Address  re^d  before  the  Chica^jo  Lyceum,  Jan.
20,  1S46.  By  Judge  He.nrv  Bkov\.\,  author  of "History  of  Illinois."  *■'"
Rise  and  Progress  of  Chicago:  An  Address  read before    the   Centennial    Library  Associiition,   March
21,  1676.     By  J.-\.\!K-i  A.  .MA.'<bH.\LL,  Esq. Chicago   in   1836:    "Strange    Early    Days."     By
H.xkKiET  ^L•\H  rTr.K.i.';,  autl.or'of  ".'society  in  Ameri- ca," etc.     Pp.  .\<:;  ivo.      1876.  Pri'.e,  25  cents. 10.
Addresses  Read  before  Chicago  Histori- cal Society,  1  /  J  ion  J.  V.  SrA.MMON,  Hon.  I.  N. A>f.-.'.L:.,  V.M.  H;  t.i.i.-.r;.  Esq.,  Co!.  G.  S  Wvv- hakh,  and  Hi:.-..-.   W.  Beckv.i  th,  Ls'^.;  Sketches  of
Win.  B.  Ogden  (portrait);  and  Early  : in  Chicas^o.    By  Hon.  Is.\ac  N.  .\k:<oi..')  (; Read  before  the  Chic  Hist.  SocTu  ->.,  Dec  •- Also,  Sketches  of  Wm.  B.  Ogden.     By  J^- YoL-.Nc;  ScATr.Mo.v  (pc^rtrait;.    Pp.  72:  Svo.    i83 For  later  iiu»bf  rs,  see  insider  ol" cover. Any  of  the  above  books  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price,  pn.stpaid,  to  any  part  of  the  U.  S.,  by  the  PV'^
Aug- 4,  1896.  l^V>i*{nr,its     I*i"iiJili«J.54-     Ooiriptiiiy,     05>i<^*ii
Col.  John  H.  Kinzie,  by  his  wife,  Juliette  . KiNZiE-;  Judge  Geo.  Manierre,  Luther  Haven,  E>: ar.d  other  Early  Settlers;  also,  of  Billy  Caidwell  «.■: Shabonee,  and  the  "Winnebago  Scare,"  of  July,  i?.-; and  other  important  original  matter  connected  v.--- ".Early  Chicago."  Pp.  1%;  8vo.  1S77.  Price,  :;.-• 11.
Early   Medical    Chicago:   An   ILlstoric:
Sketch  of  the  First  Praccinoners  of  Medicine:  v.  • the  Present  Faculties,  and  Graduates  since  their  f'f ganLzs-tion  of  the  Medical  Coile.jes  of  Chicago.  ? James  Nevins  Hyde,  A.M.,  M.D.  Illustrated  wi; numerous  Wood  Engravuigs  and  Steel  Engravings Profes.sors  J.  Adams  Allen,  N.  S.  Davis,  and  the  b Daniel  Brainard.  Pp.  84;  Svo.  187(5.  Price,  50  c: IS.
Illinois  in  the  i8th  Century. — Kaskask; and  its  Parish  Records.  A  Paper  read  ber'  : the  Chicago  Historical  .Societj',  Dec.  16,  1879.
Old  Fort  Chartres.  A  Paper  read  before  the  C?; cago  Historical  Society,  June  16,  i83o.  With  L;. gram  of  Fort.
Col.  John  Todd's   Record    Book.     A  Paper  n:-. before  the  Chicago  Historical  Society,  Feb.  15.  ic- By  Edward  G.  ^La.son.    Pp.  68;  S\o.     iSSr.    50.-.' 13.
Recollections  of  Early  Illinois  and  he Noted  Men.  By  Hon.  Josep;:  Gim-EspjEj  K wardsviiie.  Read  before  the  Chicago  Historic Society,  March  16,  1S80.  With  Portraits  of  Autr.' Govs.  Reynolds  and  Bissell,  and  Henry  Gra'.. Pp   52;  Svo.     iSSo.      .  Price,  50  cc::t
1   4r.
The  Earliest  Religious  History  cf  Chicago By  Rev.  Jeremiah  Portkk,  its  ist  Resident  Py-- An  Address  read  before  the  Cnicago  Hist.  Soc,  1:-
Early  History  of  Illinois.  By  Hon.  William  .' Brown.  A  Lecture  read  before  the  Chicago  \ ceum,  Dec.  8,  1S40.
Early  Society  in  Southern  Illinois.  By  K-- I'dkert  W.  Patterso.n-,-  D.D.  An  .Address  rer bef'jre  the  Chicago  Historical  Society,  Oct.  19,  ti' •■
Reminitjcences  of  the  Illinois-Bar  Forty  Yci' Ago  :  Lincoln  and  Douglas  as  Orators  and  Law.  - By  Hon.  Fsaac  N.  Ar.nold.  Read  before  t.i;e  h:  . B.tr  Association,  Springfield,  Jan.  7,  1881.
First  Murder-Trial  in  Iroquois  Co.  fc  First  M-'
der  in  Cook  Co.    Pp.  112;  c'.o.    1S81.    Price,  jo  ^..
lo.  .
Abraham  Lincoln:  A  Pape.- read  befoit''"
Royal    Historical   Society,   Londou,  June   r  . By' Hon.  Ls.aac  N.  Arnold,  of  Chicago.
Stephen  Arnold  Douglas  :    An  Eulogy,    pt before  the  Chicago   University,  Bryan   Haii, 1861.     By  Hon.  Ja=.  W .  Shf:.\ha.n',  of  The  ■. Trikioie.     i38i.  '  Svo  ,   4S  pp.  ;  paper.     I'li^, -■; 10,
Early  Chicago — Fort  Dearborn:    An  .- dress  read  at  the  unveiling  .fa  tablet  on  '- site,  under  the  auipices  of  the  Chicago   H- Society,  Chicago,  May  11,    iS8r.       :;d  Pap-' Hon.  John  Wk.s'tv.okth,  LIv.D.     V/iih  ar dix,ctc.    Portraits  of  Caijl.W.ii.Welis  and  Mr Heald.     Also,  Indexes  to  ist  and  ?d  I.--  rr "Caluniet-Club  Reception."  '.'vo.,  1121-;'.   i'-'
^
ice  50  ccn
i^MSliilil.^:^^i=ilE^^-.;-l.-ii^.:^J^MLii,i.:,,jl
»•♦♦•«•♦-♦-*-♦-«  +♦♦♦  +  -*
'^tx^AB'i^iBimkaU^itks'^E^iiiir^
TinvA^a  gjugKty-fltttc^-.
5-fc
Fif'-ia    (^UVERNOR    OF    ILLINOIS. JULIA    DUNCAN  KlRljy
V t/v  ¥oT  Catalogue,       j  Inside  ax'd  Last  Pa.^es  of  Cover,
FERGUS    FRINTjNG    CO'     '        t%    CHICAGO,
(REYNOLDS')    M'  N    TIMES.
^•si.-.i..  v.;  Illinois;]  Embracing-also  Th. .     .      ry  of  My  Life.    By  John  Reynolds,  l.i.
fiov.  of  111.,  ere.  Portrait.  Reprint  ot  orisjina'  ;  .■  -'f  1S55.  with  complete  IwJex  added.  Cloth  boani Giit-top;  .Side  ^nd  bottona  ur.ciit ;  Antique  Par  2-5;  Svo.     1S79.     Edition  of  iJ2  copies.    Price,  $7.21
(REYNOLDS  )  PJOK        .     HISTORY  OF  ILLINOIS.
Coi:!tair!;nf  the.  Discovery  in  1673  .-.  .le  History  of  the  Country  to  the  year  iSic -Ahcii  -h-    .^.-r.re  Goveri.-ruent  vas  orga*  rJy  J"»hn   Kfaxolds,  late  Governor  of  liiincis.  Member  '
C'cn:;i--;--.-.  -';  iL'j  Seraior,  ai:)d  Kepreser.tat.  Ac.  bellevjllc,  II!. ,  i3'/j.  liep'rinted  froiTi  t.'ie  original  editiv; !.■'.  \v:i;ch  l.ave  been  added  Nctes  and  a  c^mpiCte  Index.  Portraits.  Pages  459-  Svo.  Cluth  Boards;  unc-,; i  :ned  Paper.  '  Price,  ij."
THE   MARTYRDOM    OF    LOVEJOY.
An  account  of  the  Life,  Trials,  and  Perils  of  Rev.  Elijah  P.  Lovejoy,  Icilled  by  a  Pre :~U-vcrv-  -Mcb,  at  Al.cn,  TU.,  on  ciie  r.i;.;ht  of  No</.  7.  1057.  By  He.n'rv  T.\nn-ek,  of  Bi:nalo,  N.V-.  :--!.  Y\- V.'injei-s.     Clotii  toards;  Gilt-top;  Side  and  bottom  uacut;  IliuitraCed:  Pp.  233;  Svo.     iSSr.  V  \     .
(Vol.  I.)  HISTORY  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SETTLEMENT
In  Edv/ards  County,  Illinois :  Founded  by  Morris  Eirkbeck  (portraif)  and  George  Flowed vrtrait),  in  1S17  and  18 rS,  By  George  Flower.  With  Preface  and  Foct-Note.s  by  Ken.  E.  B.  W.^.j.m- :  i-cNE.    Complete  Subject  and  Persoral  inde.'ies.    Cloth  Boards;  uncut.    Pages  408;  Svo.    1882.    Price,  5;;  c-j
•Vol.  II.)  SKETCH  OF  ENOCH  LONG.
An   Illinois  Pioneer  (with  portraits      By  PIap.vey  Reid.      Cloth  boards;  uncut.
Pages  112;  Svo.  -  1384.         Price,  $2.0..
:  Vol.  III.)  THE  EDWARDS  PAPERS.
Being-  a  Portion  of  the  Coll.  of  the  MSS.  of  Ninian  Edwards,  C.-J,  of  Ct  of  .Appeih
of  Ky. :  first  and  only  gov.  of  111.  T'y;  one  of  the  hr^t  two  U.  S.  senators  and  third  gov.  of  III.  Preser.teri to  the  Chic.  Hist.  Soc.  Oct.  lotn,  leSj.  by  his  son,  N.  W.  Edwj\kds.  ex-Att'y-Gen  of  111.  Edited  by  Hon. E.  B.  W.A.?HBL'KNE.  With  Steel  Portraits  of  Gov.  Edwards  and  Dan'l  P.  Cook;  and  20  fac-si.fniie  (iiih- graph)  letters.     Complete  Inde.K.     Cloth  boards;  uncut.     Pages  631;  Svo.     1S34.  Price,  :j.6.g.
THE  DEARBORNS  (portraits).
A  Discourse  commemorative  of  the  Eightieth  Anniversary  of  the  Occupation  of  For? Dearborn,  and  the  First  Se'-itlement  st  Chicago.  Read  before  die  Chicago  fii-^torical  Society,  Tue- ''ay,  Pec.  i8.  ir.3-:.  By  Da.-.'hcl  Goodvvin,  Jr.  With  Remans  of  Hons.  John  We.n'twortk,  J.  Yolv'J '   A.M.v.wN,  E.  V).  Washbur.ne,  and  I.  N.  i\.KNo:,D.     Pp.  56;  Svo.     18S4.  Paper,  50  '-■;
The  Tov/ne-Family  Memorial.  Compiled  from  the  New-England  Historical  and  Gensi logical  Register.  To^vne  Manu.scripts,  Public  and  Family  Records;  for  A.  N.  Towne,  San  Francisco,  Ca' By  F.iJ\v:-.-  Htur, \kd.     Pp.  124;  Svo.     18S0.  Paper,  .$2 '.<
The  Powers  Family:    A  Gen.  and  Hist.  Record  of  Walter  Power  and  some  of  his  .DesceiK:
ants  to  t'-.e  Zsinth  Ge.neration.     Compiled  by  A.mos  H.  Powers.     Pp.  200:  Svo.     iZ'i.x.  Cloth,  %:-..(.'■
The  Goodrich -Family  Memorial.     (Part  Two.)     Containing  the  American   Histoiy  ?.r.
Four   (kncations   of  the    Descendants  of  William  and    Sarah   (Marvin;  Goodrich  cf  Wether.sfieid,  Cc. C^'mT.iicd  by  EuwjN  Hur;BAK!).     Pp.  102;  8vo.     10S4.  Paper,;;:
Annals  of  Fort  Mackinac:  Its  Legends,  Early  History,  and  Events,  with  a  list  of  Frenci; B.rirish.  and  American  .Militnry  and  Civil  Officers,  Prie.sts,  and  Marriages,  etc.,  etc.  By  Lieut.  D.  i: Kei.i -.'.•:.    C.-S.  Army.      i!iu>.trated.     Pages  102;  Svo.     i8d2.  Price,  50  cc.'.i
DRAMATIC    STUDENTS'  VADE    MECUM. Comprising  Selections  from  the  most  popular  Tragedies,  Plays,  Dramas,  Cor^edi-^^
Faices.  Burlettas,  etc.;  carefully  arranged  and  especially  adapted  to  the  use  of  Teachers  and  SfJ.-'
trie   bramaiic  Art,  Amateur  Clubs,  and    Parlor  Representations,  with  a  full  description  of   ChavH'i
r,-ntry,  Costumes,  etc.     By  W^it-Liam  McFaki-'*nd.   P.'-ofessor  of  Rhetoric,  Elocution,  and  the  Dr.n.
.'.  t.  1885.     Pp.  2co;  8vo.     Paper.     Parts   i.and  If.,  each.  35  Ci
The  Gentle  Shepherd.  A  Pastoral  Comedy.  By  An  an  Ramsay.  With  a  short  Skci: of  the  -Author,  and  a  Glossary  of  Scottish  Words.     Pages  96;  24ino.     iSW-i.        Paper,  25  cts.     Cloth,  jo  <'  ■■
iVol.  I.)  CHICKAMAUGA.
Noted  Battles  for  the  Union  during  the  Ci\nl  War  in  the  United   States  of  Amcr^
''''■  V-y   If'HN  B   'Viv.riMA  fii.jrtrait),  late  Lvig;o]ier-general.  United-States  Vohinf.eers,  formerly  Co!
.Staff  (FCtaf-\{.tjf.r;  in  the  Impcriar  Guards  of  Kus.sia.     With  Rosters  of  Army  of  the  C:
■■.rniy  of  the  'I'ennessee;  strength  ;<nd  lo.  ses  of  eat  h  nrmy:,  -ind  a  complete  Index.     U\\y>v:
y^ \ '.'/.-:) i)  8vo.     Cloth  Luatds;  uncut.      iZZ'i.         Price,   ^?
JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
r
t&  it0  '^•iiitM«^rtni<ii<-,-Mfittii^^    *  ^  '•
Cliioijjo  I'liotoCrivurc  Co,
^:^  .^
^£Cii^^ifi<2C'^:Z':g^€^^^
FERGUS'     HISTORICAL     SERIES,     No.     2  9.
BIOGRAPHICAL    SKETCH
OF
JOSEPH  DUNCAN,
Fifth  Governor  of  Illinois.
Read  before  the  Historical  Society  of  Jacksonville,  Ilt,. May  7,   1885.
JULIA    DUNCAN    KIRBY
ILLUSTRATED.
h:
CHICAGO:
FERGUS    PRINTING    COMPANY. 1888.
:..   J
Y.KyA:
,..l.ll-  ,.'-^«-ti
Y«
PREFACE.
TF  the  reader  should  find  mentioned  in  the  following ^  sketch  many  trivial  incidents  and  numerous  items  of only  local  interest,  and  but  slightly  connected  with  the subject,  let  him  bear  in  mind  the  fact  that  this  paper was  prepared  for,  and  read  to,  a  small  audience  of  friends, most  of  whom  were  personally  acquainted  with  Gov. Duncan  and  his  family,  and  had  lived  for  years  as  their neighbors,  and  by  whom  every  local  allusion  was  under- stood.
Although  the  paper  was  not  prepared  for  publication, and  has  been  committed  to  print  only  at  the  request  of relatives  and  too  partial  friends,  yet  it  is  thought  that the  student  of  Illinois  history  may  be  pleased  to  learn Gov.  Duncan's  views  in  regard  to  State  Banks,  Internal Improvements,  the  Illinois-and-Michigan  Canal,  and  other questions  of  great  importance  in  the  early  history  of  the State;  and  that  his  opinions  in  regard  to  Slavery,  the suspension  of  the  United -States  Bank,  Civil  Service,  and Temperance  will  be  found  worthy  of  consideration  by those  interested  in  the  history  of  the  Nation.
Jacksonvillk,  III.,  Feb.  lo,  1888.
'11'
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN
BlOGRArHICAL    SKETCH.
Ladies   and   Gentlemen   of   the   Historical  .Society  of Jacksonville :
\\
GYRE'S  requested  by  you  to  prepare  a  sketch  of  the  ''Life and  Labors  of  Joseph  Duncan,"  I  felt  that  I  could  not undertake  it.
History  and  all  sketches,  historical  or  biographical,  should  be both  accurate  and  impartial,  and  there  are  others  in  this  Society who  have  stood  nearer  the  times  in  which  he  lived,  and  are  free from  any  bias  or  prejudice,  besides  possessing  high  literary  taste and  a  ready  pen,  to  whom  more  apj^ropriately  might  have  been committed  the  task.
It  might  be  supposed  that  the  daughter  of  the  subject  of this  sketch,  would  have  peculiar  facilities  for  obtaining  the  facts necessary  for  such  an  article,  but  to  a  very  limited  extent  only, is  this  the  case.  L^nfortunately,  some  years  ago,  all. the  political papers,  pamphlets,  and  most  of  the  letters  which  were  in  the possession  of  his  family,  and  were  supposed  to  contain  valuable information  in  regard  to  either  his  i)ublic  or  private  life,  were sent  to  the  Chicago  Historical  Society  at  the  request  of  friends and  contemporaries  of  his,  who  proposed  to  pre|)are  and  publish a  sketch  of  his  life  for  that  Society.  All  these  papers  were  des- troyed before  the  work  proposed  had  been  accomplished,  in  the great  fire  of  Chicago,  Oct.  8-9,.  1871.
Notwitlistanding  a  feeling  of  delicacy  in  the  matter,   I  have *  undertaken    to  comply  with  your   request,  and,   though   deeply
i  conscious  of  the  im[;erfections  and  incompleteness  of  my  sketch,
I  I  yet  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  present  to  you  a  few  facts  in  the
I  5
•/  /.  J  V,
6  .     GOV.  JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
life  of  one  who  has  not  been  an  unimportant  actor  in  the  early history  of  IlHnois,  the  State  of  his  adoption,  the  State  that  did  so much  for  him,  and  of  which  he  was  so  justly  proud.
Joseph  Duncan's  native  State  was  Kentucky,  and,  as  the  char- acter and  tastes  of  nian  are  largely  moulded  and  directed  by  the environments  and  influences  surrounding  his  youth,  the  following description  of  life  in  Kentucky  at  that  day,  from  the  pen  of  one of  our  honored  citizens,  may  not  be  inappropriate:
"  For  ages  before  the  white  man  descended  the  western  slope of  the  Alleghanies,  what  is  now  known  as  the  State  of  Kentucky constituted  the  favorite  hunting-ground  of  different  Indian  tribes. Then,  through  forest  and  canebrake,  over  hills,  mounta,ins  and valleys,  and  across  rapid  rivers,  they  chased  the  elk  and  the buffalo,  and  hunted  the  fierce  bear  and  the  stealthy,  crouching panther.  There  the  war-dance  was  often  celebrated,  and  the deep  forest  reechoed  the  startling  war-whoops,  as  infuriated  tribes met  in  the  fierce  conflict  of  savage  warfare.
"These  hills  and  mountains,  the  Indians  felt  they  owned,  and when  the  paleface  essayed  to  occupy  them,  the  red  man  disputed every  inch  of  ground,  and  the  adventurous  prisoner  met  his  death by  tomahawk  or  scalping-knife.  The  first  settlers,  as  a  matter  of self-preservation,  lived  in  fortified  stations,  and  relied  for  support upon  the  chase  and  the  stream  and  such  patches  of  corn  as  they could  cultivate  under  the  immediate  protection  of  the  forts. Every  adventurer  to  tliese  wild  and  fascinating  scenes  was  wel- comed as  a  brother  by  those  who  had  preceded  him.  His presence  added  additional  strength  to  the  fort,  and  so  he  was admitted  to  full  and  equal  enjoyment  of  their  scanty  means  of subsistence.
"Suh^ject  at  any  time  to  savage  incursions,  the  inhabitants  ot the  different  stations  held  themselves  always  ready  to  fly  to  the relief  of  any  one  upon  whom  the  fury  of  the  red  man  was  about to  descend.  As  the  immigrants  multiplied,  log-cabins  were  built by  the  more  daring  near  the  fortified  stations.  The  plowman went  to  the  field  with  his  butcher-knife  in  his  belt  and  his  rifle on  his  shoulder.     If  the  approach  of  the  foe  was  discovered  in
!.>  \o  n'jq  vfi
i
GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  7
time,  the  families  fled  to  the  fort  for  protection  and  common defence;  but  too  often  the  first  notice  that  the  stealthy  enemy was  in  the  settlement  was  the  light  blazing  up  from  the  cabin  of some  murdered  family."
Distinguished  among  the  early  settlers  of  Kentucky  for  intelli- gence and  wisdom  in  counsel  and  for  bravery  in  repelling  the incursion^  of  the  Indians  was  Maj.  Joseph  Duncan,  of  Scotch ancestry;  who,  when  at  length  the  settlement  enjoyed  peace  and safety,  returned  to  his  native  state,  Virginia,  and  soon  after  mar- ried a  lady  of  culture  and  refinement  from  Pennsylvania.  In  1790, he  removed  with  his  family  from  Virginia  to  Kentucky,  and  on Feb.  22,  1794,  his  son,  Joseph  Duncan,  the  subject  of  this  sketch, was  born,  in  Paris,  Bourbon  County,  Kentucky.  The  large,  old- fashioned  stone-house,  which  was  the  family  residence  and  place of  his  birth,  still  stands  in  that  city.
The  thrilling  narratives  of  Indian  warfare  to  which,  as  a  child, he  listened  as  they  fell  from  the  lips  of  his  father  and  his  father's friends  while  gathered  around  the  family  fireside,  and  the  warm friendships  and  generous  hospitality  daily  witnessed  in  his  home, doubdess  contributed  much  to  the  formation  of  his  character  as a  man,  which  was  distinguished  for  the  courage,  heartiness,  and generosity,  characteristics  of  the  better  elements  of  pioneer  life.
Maj,  Duncan  died  in  1806,  when  Joseph  was  but  twelve  years of  age.  There  were  six  children  in  the  family,  Mathew  and James  being  older,  Polly  Ann,  Thomas,  and  John  being  younger than  Joseph.
In  1809,  three  years  after  his  father's  death,  his  mother  married Capt.  Benjamin  Moore  of  tliC  regular  army,  who  died  in  181 1. One  son,  Benjamin  Duncan  Moore,  was  the  fruit  of  their  mar- riage, who  entered  the  navy,  where  he  served  four  years,  and  in 1833,  entered  the  army  and  was  killed  in  the  Mexican  A\'ar,  Dec. 6,  1846,  at  San  Pascual,  Cal,  holding  at  the  time  the  rank  of captain  of  First  Dragoons,  U.S.A.  He  left  one  son,  Mathew Moore,  nov/  in  the  western  army.
In  September,  1815,  shortly  after  attaining  the  age  of  twenty- one,  Joseph  Duncan  was  appointed  guardian  of  his  sister  and  his
8  •  GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  ,
two  younger  brothers.  Capt.  Mathew  Duncan,  the  eldest  son^ was  educated  at  Yale  College,  and  after  completing  his  education and  returning  to  his  native  State,  he,  for  a  time,  edited  a  paper  in Russellville,  Ky.,  called  TJie  Mirror.  On  removing  to  Illinois,, in  1814,  he  edited  and  published  at  Kaskaskia  The  Illinois Herald^  the  first  newspaper  published  in  Illinois.  In  December, 18 14,  he  published  the  first  book  or  pamphlet  that  was  published in  the  State.  In  June,  1815,  he  published  the  first  volume  of what  is  known  as  'Pope's  Digest.''  In  181 7,  Mathew  Duncan, sold  his  paper  to  Daniel  P.  Cook  and  Robert  Blackwell.  Pie abandoned  journalism  and  entered  the  army,  was  made  captain of  Rangers,  Oct.  4,  1832;  in  1833,  was  made  captain  of  the  First Dragoons.  He  resigned  after  four  years'  service  and  engaged  in business  in  Shelby ville.  III.,  where  he  died  Jan.  16,  1844,  only a  few  hours  after  Gov.  Duncan,  neither  knowing  of  the  illness  of the  other.  His  wife  died  Jan.  11.  This  double  affliction  proved too  great  a  shock  to  his  aged  mother,  and  in  a  few  months  she, too,  passed  away.
Mathew  Duncan  left  one  son.  Gen.  Thomas  E>uncan  of  the regular  army,  who  died  at  Washington,  D.C.,  Jan.  7,  1887.  His son,  Wilson  Duncan,  represents  the  family  in  the  army  as  a  lieu- tenant of  infantry,  married  and  stationed  at  Fort  Sidney,  Neb.
Gen.  James  M.  Duncan,  second  brother  of  Joseph  Duncan? graduated  at  Transylvania  College,  in  Lexington,  now  merged  in the  State  University.  He  was  made  captain  of  the  Seventeenth Infantry,  March  12,  1812.  He  returned  home  when  the  army was  disbanded.  May,  1814.  On  moving  to  Illinois,  he  settled  in Vandalia,  held  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  supreme  court  while  it held  its  sessions  there,  and,  when  the  capital  was  removed  to Springfield,  Dec.  9,  1839,  he  removed  with  it.  He  afterward removed  to  Jacksonville,  and  engaged  in  business  as  a  merchant. While  residing  there  he  was  elected  an  elder  in  what  was  then known  as  the  Old- School  Presbyterian  Church  of  Jacksonville. He  died  in  Berlin,  Sangamon  County,  in  1856.  He  had  five daughters,  but  only  one,  xMrs.  Jane  Snow,  sdll  survives.
Thomas   Duncan,   the    third  brother,  was  also  a  graduate  of
H
iy>
GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  9
Transylvania  University.  He  studied  law,  settled  and  practised his  profession  at  Nashville,  Tenn.,  with  success.  He  married Miss  Jane  Stoddard,  sister  of  Mrs.  James  Bell.  He  had  two children,  a  son  and  a  daughter.  He  was  accidentally  killed  at Iberville,  La.,  while  still  a  young  man  — 1831.
John,  the  youngest  brother,  was  a  promising  graduate  of  Rush Medical  College  of  Philadelphia,  but  lost  his  life  during  the  lirst year  of  his  practice.  A  class-mate,  writing  of  him,  says  :  "John always  stood  at  the  head  of  his  class,  and  was  the  handsomest man  in  the  College."
Polly  Ann,  the  only  sister,  was  married  when  quite  young  to WiUiam  Linn,  a  lawyer  by  profession,  who  was  afterward  ap- pointed Receiver  of  Public  Moneys  at  Vandalia.  Judge  William Thomas  says  :  "He  was  a  man  of  fine  address,  polished  manners, and  much  culture,  but  of  little  principle.  He  became  intemper- ate, neglected  the  duties  of  his  office,  and  became  a  defaulter."' Mrs.  Linn  was  a  brilliant  woman,  whose  poems  and  drawings  are family  treasures.
In  1 81 2,  when  the  tocsin  of  war  again  sounded,  and  the  stir- ring appeals  of  Henry  Clay  swept  over  the  land  and  reverberated through  the  mountains,  hills,  and  valleys  of  Kentucky,  and  kin- dled afresh  the  glowing  patriotism  of  her  young  men,  regiments of  volunteers  sprang  forth,  ready  for  the  battle.  Among  these volunteers  was  Joseph  Duncan,  who,  though  only  seventeen  years of  age,  enlisted  as  a  private  in  the  Seventeenth  regiment  of  the United-States  Infantry,  and,  before  he  left  Lexington,  was  pro- moted to  the  rank  of  ensign.
That  he  did  not  enlist  without  a  knowledge  of  the  hardships and  j)rivations  which  he  would  be  called  upon  to  endure  is  shown by  a  letter  from  a  friend  and  neighbor,  then  on  duty  near  the seat  of  war,  received  at  his  home  in  Paris,  Ky.  We  quote  the roost  of  the  letter,  as  giving  an  excellent  picture  of  what  "soldier- ing" was  in  those  days:
"Camp  Miami,  Dec.  21,  181 2.
"Dear  Dunxan:  We  shall  leave  this  place  on  Thursday  for  the Rajjids,  notwithstanding  our  only  means  of  transportation  is  cer-
i\-'::>:
•ii!"
10  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
tainly  bad.  We  shall  be  compelled  to  carry  our  baggage  on  sleds drawn  by  ourselves,  or  wait  until  the  river  thaws  out,  and  of  that there  is  small  probabihty.  We  have  been  without  flour  for  twelve days  and  have  subsisted  on  beef  and  pork.
*'It  has  been  a  trying  time  for  us.  The  Spartans  never  could have  undergone  more  hardships  and  apparently  with  as  much fortitude  as  the  tender  striplings  from  Kentucky,  men  that  before this  have  never  been  out  of  the  precincts  of  a  mother's  care. The  Seventeenth  is  still  without  sufficient  clothing  to  resist  the northern  blasts  of  Caiiada,  but  in  this  condition  they  seem  re- joiced at  the  idea  of  going  on  to  avenge  our  country's  wrongs. We  expect  to  meet  with  clothing  and  tlour  at  the  Rapids,  and from  there  we  shall  march  on  to  Detroit.  In  my  opinion,  I  am sorry  to  inform  you,  that  we  shall  be  compelled  to  leave  about two  hundred  sick  at  Fort  Miami.  I  am  aware  of  the  impropriety of  writing  such  letters  from  the  army,  but  I  know^  that  you  feel the  same  interest  in  the  welfare  of  our  country  as  myself  I therefore  hope  you  will  not  divulge  the  contents  of  this  letter where  it  may  do  harm,  for  although  our  sufferings  are  great,  they are  nothing  in  comparison  to  our  forefathers'.  Yet,  should  it  be known,  it  might  be  difficult  to  obtain  the  force  that  we  may  need to  accomplish  our  ends.  Yours  truly,
Philip  Shrover."
Being  a  man  of  vigorous  constitution,  and  stature  above  the average,  of  great  muscular  power.  Ensign  Duncan  performed much  hard  service  during  the  war,  and  was  often  in  perils  which severely  tested  his  energy,  tact,  and  courage,  as  well  as  his  bodily powers.  At  one  time  he  was  the  bearer  of  despatches  from  the interior  to  the  Army  of  the  Northwest.  His  route  lay  either through  the  pathless  forests  of  the  Black  Swamp,  or  else  along the  trail  of  the  army,  which  was  infested  by  marauding  parties  of hostile  savages,  and  in  his  way  lay  the  river  upon  whose  banks Col.  William  Crawford  was  burned  at  the  stake  by  the  ijifarnous Simon  Girty  and  his  Indian  associates  in  1782.
Duncan,  with  an  Indian  guide,  struck  into  the  forest.     Across
« ;  1 1;
GOV.    T0SP:PH   DUNCAN.  I  I
his  course  ran  a  small  river,  swollen  by  the  freshets  to  a  deep and  rapid  stream.  His  guide  refused  to  cross.  Ensign  Duncan handed  his  papers  to  him  and  dashed  into  the  flood  and  swam  to the  opposite  shore.  He  called  to  his  guide  to  follow,  who  still refused.  Recrossing  the  stream,  he  again  urged  him  to  cross with  him.  Though  well  mounted,  the  guide  had  not  the  courage to  enter  the  dangerous  current.  Taking  his  papers  from  him, Duncan  for  the  third  time  crossed  the  torrent  in  safety.  Alone and  ignorant  of  the  woods,  he  at  once  sought  the  trail  of  the army.  Reaching  it  before  nightfall,  he  followed  it  until  about midnight,  when,  coming  upon  one  of  the  block-houses  buJt  by the  army  on  its  march  out,  and  being  much  fatigued,  he  deter- mined to  rest  till  morning.
He  dismounted,  fastened  his  horse,  and  entered  the  house, when  he  almost  stumbled  over  the  body  of  a  man,  stretched  upon the  floor.  At  once  a  savage  yell  rose  from  the  prostrate  man, which  aroused  a  party  of  hostile  Indians,  who  had  taken  posses- sion of  the  block-house.  Duncan,  with  ready  presence  of  mind, at  once  threw  a  handful  of  small  coin  upon  the  hearth,  and  in  a second  the  Indians  had  lighted  with  flint  the  dry  grass  which filled  the  rough  fire-place  and  were  scrambling  over  the  floor, each  striving  to  obtain  the  greatest  share  of  the  unexpected  treas- ure. He  thus  gained  a  few  moments  of  time,  withdrew  from  the house,  leaped  into  his  saddle,  and  putting  spurs  to  his  horse,  in the  darkness  eluded  pursuit.
Probably  the  most  noted  achievement  during  the  war  was  the part  taken  in  the  defence  of  Fort  Stephenson.  A  detailed  account of  this  action,  taken  from  oflicial  reports,  may  perhaps  be  per- mitted here,  not  merely  because  of  its  influence  upon  the  life  and military  reputation  (;f  Duncan,  but  also  because  of  its  decisive importance  in  the  war.  The  course  of  the  campaign  on  the Xorthwest  frontier  up  to  August  i,  1813,  had  thrown  the  main body  of  the  Aivierican  army  under  the  immediate  command  of Gen.  WilHam  Henry  Harrison,  in  the  rear  of  Fort  Stephenson. The  commanding  gt-neral,  upon  assuming  his  position  at  Seneca- town,  placed  Fort  Stephenson  under  the  command  of  Col.  George
I  (
i>    \.:!W   .V
:\   u\K)i\
■Ji  ii
?l\'^Z)
12  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
Croghan  \vith  orders  that  if  the  enemy  approached  with  cannon, he  should  abandon  the  fort  and  fall  back  upon  the  main  army  at Senecatown.  Fort  Stephenson  was  at  that  time  in  an  entirely defenceless  state.  It  was  a  light  stockade,  Hanked  with  block- houses, without  a  ditch  or  any  other  exterior  defence,  defended by  between  one  hundred  and  thirty  and  one  hundred  and  forty effective  men,  provided  with  one  six -pounder,  having  seven charges  of  powder  and  a  keg  of  lead,  and  the  ammunition  amount- ing to  only  forty  rounds  of  musket-cartridges.
Upon  receiving  the  conuriand,  Col.  Croghan  addressed  himself with  great  assiduity  to  such  preparations  as  would  enable  him  to withstand  an  attack.  With  an  insuflicient  supply  of  tools  and implements,  he  surrounded  the  fort  by  a  ditch,  cut  down  and removed  trees  to  musket-shot  distance  from  the  fort,  and  made such  repairs  as  were  absolutely  necessary  upon  the  stockade. These  improvements,  pushed  on  with  increasing  diligence  and labor,  were  just  completed,  when  intelligence  was  received  at headquarters  that  the  seige  of  Foit  Meigs  had  been  raised,  and that  Gen.  Preston,  at  the  head  of  five  thousand  British  and  Indian troops,  and  provided  with  cannon  and  gunboats,  was  approaching the  American  static-ns  on  the  Sandusky.  This  state  of  things seemed  to  make  the  contingency  upon  which  Fort  Stephenson was  to  be  abandoned.  Accordingly,  an  order  from  the  com- mander-in-chief was  sent  to  Col.  Croghan,  directing  him  "to  fall back  upon  Senecatown."
Upon  the  receipt  of  this  order.  Col.  Croghan  called  a  council of  war  and  asked  advice  of  his  officers,  whether  he  should  aban- don it  or  defend  the  fort.  According  to  military  usage,  Ensign Duncan,  being  the  youngest  officer,  was  first  called  upon  to  ex- press his  opinion.  He  was  decidedly  "in  favor  of  defending  the fort,  the  order  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,"  and  of  the  same mind  were  a  majority  of  the  officers.  Col.  Croghan  expressed great  satisfaction  at  this  result,  as  he  said  he  had  determined  to defend  the  fort  at  all  hazards.
Thereu])on,  he  was  suspended  and  ordered  to  head-quarters, and  Fort  Stephenson  placed  under  the  command  of  Col.  Samuel Wells.
L-  fi>..  ;>:>/..  iibfiJ:  ill
■dr    jU  >    ,<i)lih'3:
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.        ^  1 3
While  at  headquarters,  Col.  Croghan  so  far  satisfied  the  com- manding general  (Harrison)  of  the  propriety  of  his  course  that  he was  permitted  to  resume  his  command  at  the  fort.  Soon  after his  return,  the  enemy,  composed  of  five  hundred  British  regulars and  about  as  many  Indians,  under  the  command  of  Gen.  Preston, appeared  before  the  fort  and  gave  the  usual  formal  summons  to surrender.  The  demand  vras  met  with  the  usual  defiance,  and forthwith  commenced  a  cannonade  upon  the  fort  from  the  gun- boats and  from  a  cannon  stationed  on  the  shore.  The  firing  was continued  with  but  little  cessation  for  nearly  forty  hours.  The smallness  of  the  force  in  the  fort  rendered  a  sortie  impracticable, and  the  scarcity  of  ammunition  prevented  a  return  of  the  enemy's fire  during  this  period.  At  length,  about  six  o'clock  on  the morning  of  August  2,  1813,  the  welcome  sound  of  a  bugle  gave notice  to  the  beseiged  that  the  British  were  preparing  for  the assault.  They  were  seen  advancing  in  several  columns  under cover  of  a  fire  from  their  artillery.  The  first  attempt  was  made upon  the  northeast  front  of  the  fort,  defended  by  Lieut.  Benj. Johnson,  to  whose  assistance  Ensign  Duncan  promptly  hastened, and  by  their  united  eftbrts  the  enemy's  column,  led  by  Lieut. - Col.  Street,  was  repulsed  with  loss.  He,  however,  renewed  the assault,  on  the  northwest  angle,  defended  by  Lieut.  John  Meek and  Ensign  Edmund  Shipp,  Jr.
These  oflicers,  in  obedience  to  the  earnest  injunction  of  Col. Croghan,  reserved  their  fire  until  the  enemy  approached  within thirty  feet,  and  then  poured  it  upon  him  with  deadly  aim.  Eor  a moment  he  recoiled,  but  recovering  himself  with  a  gallant  effort, he  threw  himself  into  the  ditch.  The  six- pounder  had  been placed  in  position  to  rake  the  ditch,  masked  and  heavily  charged with  slugs  beaten  out  of  pig-lead.
At  the  m slant  that  the  ditch  was  filled  with  the  enemy,  this piece  was  discharged  upon  them,.. and  raking  its  whole  extent with  leaden  slugs,  effected  the  most  fatal  slaughter.  A  second discharge  of  this  piece,  accomi)anied  with  a  fire  of  musketry, crowded  the  ditch  with  killed  and  wounded,  and  rendered  further contest  hopeless.
;■  I
14  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
I
In  the  meantime.  Col.  Warbiirton,  at  the  head  of  a  large  party of  about  two  hundred,  made  an  attack  with  great  spirit  at  the southeast  face  of  the  works,  but  it  shared  the  fate  of  the  other columns.  Lieut.  Cyrus  A.  Baylor,  who  had  charge  of  that  part of  the  line,  being  aided  by  the  reserve  under  Ensign  Duncan  who had  been  previously  ordered  to  afford  relief  wherever  it  was wanted;  soon  compelled  it  to  retreat  precipitately  and  in  con- fusion. The  British  general  drew  off  his  force,  leaving  behind him  one  hundred  white  men  killed  and  wounded,  to  say  nothing of  Indians.
By  the  successful  defence  of  Fort  Stephenson,  the  plan  and purpose  of  the  British  campaign  were  wholly  frustrated.  His main  objects  were  the  possession  of  the  supplies  at  Cleveland,  O., and  the  destruction  of  the  naval  preparations  at  Erie.  The successful  accomplishment  of  which  would  have  given  him  the command  of  the  lakes,  and  lost  to  our  country  the  glory  and advantage  of  Com.  Perry's  victory  on  Lake  Erie.  The  posses- sion, too,  by  the  enemy  of  the  southern  shore  of  the  lake  would have  exposed  our  northwestern  frontier  to  the  usual  calamities  of Indian  incursions.
The  following  account,  published  in  a  paper  of  the  time,  illus- trates the  modesty  with  which  Ensign  Duncan  bore  the  praises which  he,  with  his  brave  comrades,  had  so  gallantly  earned:
"  The  tollowing  incident  was  related  by  Capt.  Wm.  Garrard  ot the  Kentucky  Volunteers,  which  occurred  in  his  presence  the morning  after  Croghan's  victory  over  the  British  and  Indians  at Fort  Stephenson  or  Lovv'er  Sandusky,  on  Aug.  2,  1813.
"When  Gen.  Harrison,  with  his  army,  arrived  at  Fort  Stephen- son the  morning  after  the  battle,  the  dead  bodies  of  tlie  enemy were  still  scattered  around  the  place  in  every  direction.  On  his arrival,  one  of  the  officers  in  the  fort  gave  the  general  a  glowing account  of  the  battle,  and  particularly  of  the  part  he  had  himselt taken  in  it,  after  which  the  general  turned  to  Ensign  Duncan, who  had  been  selected  by  Maj.  Croghan  to  command  the  reserve- corps,  which  is  always  a  post  of  honor  and  of  great  danger  and responsibility,  and  said  to  him:  'Well,  my  young  friend,  what  did
>.. }.
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  1 5
you  do  in  this  gallant  defence?  '  'Nothing  more  than  my  duty, sir,'  was  the  modest  reply  of  the  young  soldier  who,  though  he had  fought  side  by  side  with  the  gallant  Croghan,  meeting  the enemy  with  his  command  and  assisting  to  repulse  them  at  every point  of  attack,  appeared  unconscious  that  he  was  entitled  to  any credit,  himself,  for  a  victory  for  its  brilliancy  never  before  sur- passed, and  which  was  at  that  very  moment  filling  the  general and  his  whole  army  with  astonishment  and  the  most  profound admiration  for  the  gallantry  of  every  ofticer  and  soldier  engaged in  it."
Important  in  its  results,  the  defence  of  Fort  Stephenson  was one  of  the  most  brilliant  achievements  of  the  war,  and  won  for Col.  Croghan,  his  officers,  and  men  well -merited  renown  on account  of  their  distinguished  services  rendered  on  that  occasion. The  Congress  of  the  United  States  caused  to  be  presented  to Col.  Croghan  a  gold  medal,  and  to  each  of  the  other  officers  a gold-mounted  sword.  The  resolution  adopted  by  the  senate, and  the  official  correspondence  with  Gov.  Duncan  are  as  follows:
"  Twenty-third  Congress,  First  Session,
In  tbe  Senate  of  the  United  States, June  i8,  1834.
Mr.  Preston  from  the  Committee  on  Military  Affairs,  reported the  following  resolution,  v/hich  was  read  and  passed  to  a  second reading:
Resolution,  Presenting  a  gold  medal  to  George  Croghan,  and a  sword  to  eacli  of  the  officers  under  his  command,  for  their gallantry  and  good  conduct  in  the  defence  of  Fort  Stephenson  in eighteen  hundred  and  thirteen.
Resolved,  By  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives  of  the United  States  of  America,  in  Congress  assembled,  that  the  presi- dent of  the  United  States  be  requested  to  cause  a  gold  medal  to be  struck  with  suitable  emblems  and  devices  and  presented  to Col.  Croghan  in  testimony  of  the  high  sense  entertained  by Congress  of  his  gallantry  and  good  conduct  in  the  defence  of Fort  Stephenson;  and  that  he  present  a  sword  to  each  of  the
rAi'<^,
1 6  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  ]
following  officers  engaged  in  that  affair,  to  Capt.  Jas.  Hunter, Lieuts.  Benj.  Johnson,  Cyrus  A.  Baylor,  John  Meeks,  Ensigns Edmund  Shipp  [Jr.]  and  Joseph  Duncan.  j
<       •    "War  Department,  March  ii,  1837.  |-
"I^is  Excellency  Joseph  Duncan,  ■   .  f
^  Governor  of  Illinois,  Vandalia,  111.,  •  |
"kS"/;-;  By  a  joint  resolution  of  Congress,  approved  on  the  13th  ^,
of  February,   1835,  ^^^^  President  of  the  United  States  was  re-  |
quested  among  other  things  to  present  you  a  sword  in  testimony  |
of  the  high  sense  entertained  by  Congress  of  the  gallantry  and  |
good  conduct  displayed  by  you  in  the  capacity  of  ensirin,  as  one  |
of  the  officers  engaged  in  the  brilliant  and  memorable  defence  of Fort  Stephenson,  in  the  month  of  August,  1813.  Pursuant  to this  resolution,  the  President  has  caused  a  sword  to  be  prepared in  a  style  of  execution  corresponding  in  some  measure  with  the distinguished  character  of  the  services  it  is  intended  to  commem- orate, and  has  directed  me  to  place  it  in  your  possession.  It  I gives  me  great  pleasure  to  perform  this  duty,  for  whilst  I  regard the  offering  which  I  herewith  deliver  to  you  by  the  hands  of  Mr.  ^ William  Linn,  as  a  just  tribute  from  the  representatives  of  a  grate- ful people,  I  feel  persuaded  you  will  be  ready  to  employ  it  with alacrity  and  vigor  should  it  again  be  necessary  to  require  you  to risk  your  life  in  the  public  cause.                                                                      I
"  Be  pleased,  at  your  earHest  convenience,  to  acknowledge  the reception  of  this  communication,  and  also  the  sword.  ^
Very  respectfully,  your  most  obedient  |
B.  F.  Butler,  f
Secretary  of  War,  ^</////Vr/w."  *^
i
I
"Elm  Grove,  Jacksonville,  III.,  loth  May,  1837.  |
"  Hon.  B.  F.  Butler,  Secretary  of  War,
Sir:  Your  letter  of  the   nth   March   last,  together  witU   the
sword  which   has   been    presented  me   by  the   President  of  the
United  States  in  obedience  to  a  resolution  of  Congress,  has  just
been  received,  and,  sir,  if  anything  could  add  to  the  pleasure  I
%
i'7
riT3f'
■\i
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  .        \J
feel  at  the  receipt  of  this  splendid  present,  it  would  be  the  very handsome  manner  in  which  you  have  been  pleased  to  deliver  it.
"Every  citizen  of  our  beloved  country  should  at  all  times  feel willing  to  'risk  his  life'  in  defense  of  her  rights  or  of  that  liberty which  was  secured  for  us  by  the  patriotism,  wisdom,  and  virtue of  our  forefathers  in  that  great  and  glorious  struggle  by  which they  broke  the  shackles  both  of  body  and  mind  from  their countrymen  and  left  them  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  equal  rights and  rational  liberty.  We  have  an  example  of  public  virtue  and heroic  fortitude  that  no  son  of  theirs  who  loves  the  peace,  honor, and  safety  of  his  country  can  ever  disregard.  It  was  from  their hands,  which  a])pear  to  have  been  guided  by  wisdom  from  above, we  received  a  constitution  and  plan  of  government  eminently calculated  not  only  to  suit  the  present  condition  and  wants  of society,  but  to  give  full  scope  and  energy  to  all  the  noble  facul- ties of  man  which  we  are  bound  by  every  consideration,  personal and  national,  to  preserve  and  transmit  to  posterity  unimpaired, or  perish  in  the  attempt.
"  Having  acted  but  a  subordinate  part  in  the  affair  at  [Lower] Sandusky  [now  Fremont],  whicli  Jias  thus  excited  the  Nation's gratitude,  I  did  not  expect  nor  do  I  feel  that  1  had  any  claim  to the  distinguished  honor  that  Congress  has  been  pleased  to  confer upon  me.  To  have  done  my  duty  on  such  an  occasion,  and  to know  that  my  conduct  met  the  approbation  of  my  companions in  arms  and  my  countrymen  was  all  the  compensation  I  ever expected  and  is  the  highest  reward  that  could  have  been  con- ferred upon  me.  Regarding  the  sword  as  a  substantial  pledge  of approbation,  I  accept  it  with  gratitude,  and  hope,  with  the  fivor of  divine  Providence,  if  ever  again  called  into  the  service  of  my country  to  wear  it  with  honor.
With  great  respect,  your  obedient  servant,
Joseph  Duncax, Late  Ensign  in  the  17th  Regt.  U.-S.  Inf"
In  the  fall  of  1014,  Lieut.  Joseph  Duncan  was.  selected  by  the commanding  officer  at  Detroit  to  command  a  company  of  one
l8  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  '         .       ^
hundred  and  thirty  infantry  and  rangers  to  watch  tJie  movements of  the  British  army.  On  November  5,  lie  crossed  the  Detroit River  and  marched  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles  north-east  of Maiden  beyond  the  head  of  the  Thames  River,  in  Canada,  and pitched  his  camp  within  twenty  miles  of  the  British  army,  where he  remained  exposed  to  the  enemy's  attacks  throughout  the  most inclem.ent  winter,  during  which  time  he  captured  several  of  their scouting  or  foraging  parties,  and  sent  them  prisoners  to  head- quarters. Many  instances  occurred  through  the  war  to  test  his fortitude  and  patience.
On  one  occasion,  in  company  w^ith  ]_-ieut.  Philips,  he  crossed Lake  Erie  from  Maiden  to  Sandusky  in  an  open  yawl  in  the month  of  April,  when,  in  that  climate,  storms  blow  with  frequent and  relentless  fury.  On  nearing  the  shore,  they  found  it  impos- sible to  land  for  three  days,  the  waves  being  so  high  as  to  break over  the  boat  every  time  they  attempted  it.
At  the  close  of  the  war,  Lieut.  Duncan  returned  to  Kentucky and  engaged  in  agricultural  pursuits.  But  while  in  the  army  he had  seen  the  broad  and  fertile  prairies  of  Illinois,  and  ever  and anon  Fancy,  as  might  be  her  mood  by  day  or  night,  would  spread them  out  before  hirn  in  all  tlieir  magnificence,  covered  with  their rich  wild  -  flowers.  But  not  until  1818  did  the  Jllinois  of  his dream  become  his  home.
In  1 81 8,  when  Illinois  was  admitted  to  the  Union  as  a  state, and  Kaskaskia  became  her  capital,  Robert  McLaughlin,  an  uncle of  Joseph  Duncan,  was  appointed  state  treasurer.  He  induced the  family  to  move  to  that  part  of  the  State,  to  Fountain  Bluff upon  the  Mississippi,  in  Jackson  County.
Preceded  by  the  history  of  his  gallant  conduct  in  the  war, Duncan's  sound  judgment,  strong  common-sense,  and  lionorable bearing  soon  commanded  the  respect  and  esteem  of  his  fellow- citizens.  He  was  rapidly  promoted  to  the  high  rank  of  major- general  of  the  militia,  and  in  1823  was  elected  a  member  of  the State  senate,  ^\'hile  a  member  of  the  senate  in  1824,  lie  intro- duced a  bill  for  the  establishment  of  common-schools  in  Illinois, which  became  a  law.      It  was  a  wise  law,  carefully  framed,  and
to    vocjJIl.  :ii\]
JJ:t;
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  ^  1 9
substantially  the  same  as  that  now  in  force  in  this  State,  but  it v/as  in  advance  of  the  age  and  the  circumstances  of  the people,  and  was  soon  afterward  repealed.  An  old  citizen  of Jacksonville,  speaking  of  this  law,  says:  "  I  well  remember  the opposition  there  was  to  this  school -law  on  the  part  of  the  poor people,  who  feared  that  their  children  would  be  educated  and wholly  unfitted  tor  work  on  the  farm;  the  very  class  which  the law  was  intended  to  benefit  opposed  it  most  bitterly."
Joseph  Duncan  and  Daniel  Pope  Cook  became  candidates  in the  year  1826  for  the  Twentieth  Congress,  and  Mr.  Duncan  was elected.  Mr.  Cook  was  one  of  the  most  brilliant  men  of  his day — had  been  a  member  of  Congress  since  the  admission  of  the State,  which  was  constituted  a  congressional  district,  and  ranked among  the  leading  men  in  that  body,  holding  the  position  of chairman  of  the  Committee  of  Ways  and  Means;  of  unbounded popularity  in  the  State  until  somewhat  affected  by  his  vote  in Congress  for  Mr.  Adams  in  1824.  It  surely  was  a  triumph  of which  any  man  might  be  proud,  to  succeed  over  such  an  oppon- ent. Mr.  Duncan  was  successively  elected  to.  and  continued  to be  a  member  of  the  Twentieth,  Twenty-first,  and  Twenty-second Congresses,  and  served  from  1827  to  1833.
That  a  congressman's  life  was  then  as  now  too  much  occupied with  the  question  of  appointments  is  shown  by  numerous  pas- sages in  a  diary  which  he  kept  at  the  time,  from  which  are  tran- scribed a  few  passages,  omitting  some  names:
"1829,  Feb.  19.  Various  applications  for  me  to  support  Duff (jreen  for  public  j)rinter;  could  not  consent  to  do  so;  knew  too much  of  him;  believed  and  told  his  friends  that  they  would  soon get  tired  of  him,  as  he  was  arrogant,  dictatorial,  and  possessed no  fixed  principles;"     "^         *
"Feb.  20th.  Gen.  Jackson  arrived  in  A\'ashington  City;  Mai. [John  H.]  Eaton  met  him  on  thje.road  and  escorted  him  in.  I called  to  see  him  on  the  17th  and  again  today.  I  found  l"iin> engaged  in  another  room  with  a  corps  of  editors."     ^         '^
"Feb.  2ist.  Called  again  on  Gen.  Jackson  to  introduce  a friend;  saw  Mr.  Tazewell  with  the  general  the  only  suitable  com-
Ol
20  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  |
panion  I  had  met.     "'     ■•'"     Saw  Capt.  [Zac]  Taylor  of  the  U.-S.  |
army;  he  says  he  heard  that  Gcii.  Jackson  was  going  to  call  that  ^
day  upon  President  [J.  Q.]  Adams;  that  he  met  Duff  Green  and
told  him  that  he  understood  that  Gen.  [Andrew]  Jackson  was  to
call  upon  Mr.  Adams  that  day.    Gen,  Duff  Green  said  that  he  did
not  believe  the  report,  but  that  he  would  go  and  see,  and  if  it  was
so,  he  would  very  soon  put  a  stop  to  it.    Arrogance  ctiough'^    "'    ^^  4
"Feb.  23d.      From  the  persons  who  surround   the  general,   I  I
Tear  he  is  to  be  improperly  influenced  in  his  first  appointments. The  central  committee  appear  to  consider  him  as  their  own  game.  |
Some  of  them  are  constantly  with  him,  or  about  the  door  as  I  I
am  informed,  for  I  do  not  know  them  all  by  sight.     I  called  to  |
see  Gen.  Jackson  at  7  o'clock  in  the  evening  with  two  friends,  Mat- thew St.  Clair  Clarke  and  Lieut.  Johnson.  The  general  expressed 'much  pjleasure  in  seeing  us;  said  he  was  more  gratified  to  see  us at  that  hour,  as  '  Duff,'  as  he  called  him,  had  presumed  to  set  his hours  for  him  to  receive  his  visitors;  but  he  said  that  would  all be  right,  as  he  had  ordered  Green  to  correct  the  statement  regu- lating his  hours  for  receiving  visitors,  in  his  paper.
"What  excessive  presumption,  was  the  first  feeling  I  liad,  but it  is  all  right,  as  it  must  very  soon  place  this  character  hi  his proper  hole.  Various  rumors  are  current  about  the  appointment of  the  cabinet,  Tazewell  to  be  secretary  of  state;  Hayne,  navy; McLean,  war;  Baldwin,  treasury;  Ingham,  P.-M.  (}.  All  agree that  the  cabinet  will  be  composed  of  five  of  the  following  per- sons: Ta/ewell,  VanP'uren,  McLean,  Baldwin,  Hamilton,  Hayne, Ingham,  and  Cheves.  Gen.  Ogle  arrived  in  the  city;  came  into 'the  House  of  Representatives;  his  red  vest  attracts  great  notice; '■every  one  whispers  to  his  neighbor  to  know  who  he  is.  Several -new  senators  have  arrived.  McLean  of  Illinois.  Letters  have been  received  that  he  obtained  his  election  by  union  with  the E.-and-A.  party;  hope  it  isn't.so;  have  a  better  opinion  of  the 'man.  Called  to  see  the  President;  he  says  he  will  remove  no officer  on  account  of  ])olitical  opinions  unless  he  has  used  his 'office  for  electioneering.  He  appears  liberal,  and  I  agree  per- fectly with  his  views."
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  21
''  March  4th.  Attended  tlie  President's  inauguration.  He walked  from  Gadsbies'  hotel  with  his  hat  ofif  in  a  great  crowd. Having  a  tine  view  from  the  west  room  of  the  clerk's  office  in  the capitol,  I  could  see  him  and  the  vast  crowd  at  every  point  until they  ascended  the  great  steps  which  enter  the  capitol.  Saw nothing  that  I  disliked  but  the  conspicuous  station  and  part acted  by  the  central  committee.  Stood  near  the  president  when he  read  his  address;  was  struck  by  the  profound  attention  of  the multitude  while  he  read,  especially  as  I  am  convinced  that  three- fourths  of  all  present  could  not  have  heard  the  sound  of  his  voice, at  least  so  as  to  distinguish  one  word.  The  expression  of  the people  on  his  first  appearance  was  very  fine,  and  showed  that  he, had  a  strong  hold  on  their  affection.  The  number  present  is variously  estimated,  the  opinions  of  intelligent  persons  vary  from fifteen  to  thirty  thousand.  No  parade  of  the  military  present, except  one  or  two  companies,  and  they  were  very  far  off.  I think  they  were  from  Alexandria,  as  I  saw  one  of  them  coming from  that  direction.  With  this  1  was  much  pleased.  I  am  op-, posed  to  great  parades,  and  especially  military  parades,  on  such an  occasion;  had  rather  see  the  honors  done  after  the  service  is performed;  but  in  this  District,  where  most  of  the  people  are servants  of  or  connected  with  the  government,  it  is  natural  they should  worship  the  rising  sun.  I  was  forcibly  struck  with  the contrast  between  Mr.  Adams  entering  on  and  closing  his  official duties  as  president.  I  was  present  in  1825,  when  his  inaugura- tion took  place.  It  was  a  fine  day,  and  from  the  moment  1  first looked  into  the  street  on  the  morning  of  the  4th  of  March  until dark  I  saw  nothing  but  a  bustle,  people  moving  in  all  directions^ and -many  of  them  by  sunrise  in  full  military  dress,  and  by  10 o'clock  the  Avenue  was  crowded  with  armed  soldiers,  whom  I. took  to  be  a  mixture  of  marines,  infantry,  and  artillery  of  the United  States,  and  militia  of  the  District.  It  was  certainly  the Hnest  display  I  ever  witnessed.  Was  informed  that  many  of  the fine  coats  had  been  bought  in  lionor  of  Gen.  La  Fayette.  I  was glad  to  hear  it,  for  the  idea  of  their  having  been  bought  for  this occasion  was  too  ridiculous.     In  1829,  Mr.  Adams  was  not  seen.
22  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
on  the  4th  of  ]\Iarch,  and  I  suppose  would  not  liave  been  thought of  but  for  a  coffin  handbill  that  was  circulated  in  the  crowd  in the  most  disgusting  manner,  that  produced  general  disgust.  Did not  go  to  the  White  House  to  see  the  President  receive  his friends  after  the  inauguration.  I  understood  that  the  crowd  was very  great;  all  sorts  of  folks  there,  some  with  their  feet  on  the satin  chairs  and  sofas  and  mahogany  tables.  A  report  was  circu- lated that  the  gold  and  silver  spoons  were  stolen  on  this  occa- sion, but  believe  that  it  was  not  true."
"March  5th.  The  city  is  said  to  be  filled  with  office-hunters. There  is  general  disappointment  in  the  appointment  of  the  cab- inet. Clay  says  that  they  charged  Mr.  Adams  with  making  a bargain;  that  he  thinks  Gen.  Jackson  had  better  have  made  one."
*' March  6th,  1829.  Gov.  Kinney  and  E.  J.  W.  wish  me  to request  the  removal  of  certain  officers  from  office,  which  I  de- clined, as  I  am  opposed  to  removing  competent  and  worthy  men on  account  of  a  mere  difference  of  opinion.  They  appeared  to be  dissatisfied,  but  that  will  make  no  difterence  in  my  conduct, as  such  a  course  would  be  adverse  to  all  my  notions  of  propriet}'". Went  with  Gov.  Kinney  to  see  the  President,  recommended  West for  secretary  of  legation  to  the  minister  to  Columbia.  Gen. Jackson  says  he  will  try  and  provide  for  him.  Went  to  see  sec- retary of  the  treasury  in  favor  of  G.  T.  Pell.  The  senators  join in  the  recommendation,  and  he  is  recommended  by  many  of  the members  of  the  legislature  of  Illinois."
"March  7th,  1829.  Kane,  McLean,  and  myself  went  in  Mc- Lean's room  to  consult  about  appointments  in  the  event  of  any removals  or  vacancies.  McLean  and  myself  opposed  removals except  for  some  good  cause  other  than  political.  Kane  rather differed  in  opinion  aliout  removals.  We  agreed  to  recommend C.  Slade  for  marshal  in  tlie  event  of  Conner's  removal,  as  charges have  been  made  against  him.  We  didn't  all  agree  upon  any  one else,  nor  can  I  say  that  we  disagreed  very  much,  although  several were  named."
"March  ^oth,  1829.  Still  in  Washington  waiting  on  my  wife's health.     Went  to  see  the  President  and  secretary  of  war  about
■ji.'  -.";  r
•jja;
(,}  uvy^t
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  •     •   23
getting  the  Illinois-and-Lake-r\Iichigan  canal  located  and  the route  from  the  Illinois  River  to  Lake  Erie  examined.  .Saw  Gen. Gratiot;  got  him  to  go  with  me  to  the  war  department;  found him  very  friendly  to  my  views  and  to  the  West.  The  secretary thinks  the  law  does  not  authorize  him  to  send  engineers  to  locate. Referred  him  to  the  case  in  Indiana  under  the  same  law.  He appears  disposed  to  do  right,  and  says  if  the  favor  has  been  done to  Indiana  it  should  also  be  extended  to  Illinois;  promises  it shall  be  ordered."'
"March  nth,  1S29.  Met  Maj.  Campbell  of  Tennessee  near the  treasury  department;  he  told  me  that  the  president  and  sec- retary of  war  had  given  him  the  appointment  of  superintendent of  the  lead  mines  on  the  upper  Mississippi  River  in  Illinois  and Micliigan.  I  resolved  to  remonstrate  against  the  appointment and  told  ^Ir.  Campbell  of  my  intention.  I  went  immediately  to the  president  and  told  him  tluit  the  aj^pointment  of  a  man  from Tennessee  to  hold  an  office  in  Illinois  would  be  treating  his friends  in  that  State  very  badly,  and  that  it  could  not  help  excit- ing much  displeasure.  He  assured  me  that  he  would  do  nothing that  would  displease  his  friends  anywhere  if  he  knew  it;  that  Mr. Campbell  was  the  only  applicant;  that  he  was  not  acquainted with  tlie  fact  that  so  large  a  portion  of  these  mines  was  in  Illi- nois. He  wrote  a  note  to  the  secretary  of  war  upon  the  subject, and  assured  me  that  it  should  be  satisfactorily  arranged.  I  called the  same  day  to  see  Mr.  Eaton ;  he  appeared  anxious  to  appoint Campbell.  I  assured  him  that  it  would  be  resented  by  every citizen  of  Illinois   if  he  was  appointed.  *         *"  I  urged
the  necessity,  if  the  change  was  made,  of  their  compelling  the superintendent  to  give  bond  and  security,  as  contemplated  by my  bill  upon  the  subject  of  governing  the  mines.  Left  the  sec- retary without  much  satisfaction,  but  convinced  that  he  would insist  upon  Campbell's  appointment.^ '"  *  I  immediately  wrote a  remonstrance  to  the  president,  as  I  was  determined  that  I would  clear  myself  of  the  responsibility  of  transferring  a  man from  another  State  into  Illinois  to  hold  an  office  which  placed  in his  hands  fifty  thousand  dollars   per  annum  of  public  property.
in
24  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
without  check  or  security  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  govern- ment. Got  a  letter  from  James  M.  Duncan;  he  wants  to  be appointed  Indian  agent  in  place  of  Graham  or  Hamtramck,  who, Gen.  Smith  of  Missouri  informs  me,  are  to  be  removed,  and  he requests  me  to  use  my  influence.  This  I  can  not  do  consistently, as  I  am  unwilling  to  ask  or  receive  a  favor  which  would  place  )
me  under  obligations  to  th*e  executive  power  of  the  government  !
while  I  am  the  representative  of  the  people,  as  the  appointment  |
of  my  brother  upon  my  request  would  have  that  tendency,  and  I  |
think  every  person  applying  for  an  office  should  have  the  recom-  |
mendation  of  the  people  with  whom  he  resides  or  with  whom  he-"  I
is  to  serve.     This,  I  do  not  doubt,  my  brother  could  obtain  if  I
he  pleases."     *  '"  I
"March  — ,  1S29.     Dined  at  the  president's;  splendid  enter-  |
tainment.     All   the   secretaries,  W.  R.  Davis,  John  A^arnum,   and  |
myself  of  Congress,  Gen.  Macomb,  Jessup,  Gibson,  and  Gratiot,.  |
Col.  Towson,  and  all  the  foreign  ministers  in  full  dress  were  pres-  |
ent,  with  several  other  senators.     Maj.  Eaton  informed  me  that  |
be  had  concluded  not  to  change  the  nature  of  the  agency  at  the  I
mines,  but  he  had  or  would  detail  another  of  the  officers  of  the United-States  army  to  succeed  Lieut.  Thomas,  and  that  he  would have  several  assistants  to  appoint  and  invited  me  to  recommend some  persons  to  fill  them.     I  agreed  to  see  him  tomorrow."
"  March  — ,  1829.  Went  to  war  office;  met  Duff  Green  com- ing out;  wondered  if  he  had  any  person  for  one  of  those  places and  was  told  that  he  wanted  Dr.  Green  of  St.  Louis  appointed. I  recommended  the  retention  of  McKnight;  also  recommended Col.  Wight,  R.  W.  C,  Col.  S.  A.,  and  R.  B.  T.,  but  received  no answer.  The  secretary  spoke  of  others  out  of  the  State  for  some of  the  places,  to  which  1  objected."
"April  — ,  1829.  H  J.  W.  returned  to  the  city;  left  Kinney in  Baltimore.  He  has  a  strong-  reconmicndation  from  merchants and  other  persons  of  distinction  in  the  city  of  New  York,  recom- mending him  for  c/iargc  iV  affaires  to   .      I  called  with  him
to  see  the  president;  he  said  he  would  appoint  him,  but  the appropriation   for    that   purpose   was   exhausted.      Gov.    Kinney
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  .  2^
appears  very  anxious  for  West's  appointment;  delighted  with  his trip  to  the  North;  says  he  left  ray  brother  James  in  Boston,  get- ting better,  to  come  on  with  Capt.  S.  B.  Richardson.  Went  with Kinney  to  see  the  president;  he  told  the  president  that  his appointments  in  Boston  gave  general  satisfaction;  said  the  peo- ple expected  the  Adams  men  to  be  turned  out.  The  president expressed  pleasure  at  hearing  his  appointments  gave  such  satis- faction. Kinney  urges  the  necessity  of  removals;  says  the  Re- publicans had  fought  hard  and  had  gained  a  great  victory,  but  if the  old  Federalists  were  left  in  office  the  battle  would  have  to  be fought  over  again;  says  if  it  was  left  to  him  he  would  turn  them all  out  as  he  would  a  parcel  of  dogs  from  a  meat-house.  The president  laughed  heartily  at  this  remark,  but  made  no  reply. Returning,  we  met  Handy  of  Indiana,  at  Williamson's;  Kinney asked  him  if  he  had  been  here  ever  since  he  saw  him.  He  re- plied he  had.  Kinney  advised  him  to  go  home,  or  some  one would  administer  on  his  estate.  The  little  fellow  bore  the  joke very  well  and  replied  they  would  be  poorly  paid  for  their  trouble if  they  did.  There  are  many  others  in  the  city  who  are  running the  same  risk."
"April,  1829.  Kinney  came  to  see  me;  said  that  Eaton  would appoint  a  citizen  of  Illinois  to  one  of  the  offices  of  Galena  if  I would  recomniend  some  one,  which  I  rather  declined,  as  1  felt indignant  at  the  appointment  of  citizens  in  Tennessee  and  Vir- ginia to  hold  offices  in  Illinois."
"April  — ,  1829.  Went  with  Kinney  to  the  war  department and  recommended  A.  G.  S.  W.  Never  did  anything  with  more  re- luctance, as  I  feared  that  it  might  be  considered  as  a  surrender of  the  ground  I  had  taken  against  the  other  appointments.  Eaton asked  me  if  I  had  heard  from  my  brother,  who  was  sick  in  Bos- ton, and  ex[)ressed  a  wish  to  see  him.  Kinney  said  something about  his  appointment.  Eaton- «aid  that  he  had  come  to  no conclusion,  but  thought  that  he  would  a])point  him,  and  requested rne  to  recommend  him,  which  I  declined,  saying  that  my  brothers must  rely  upon  others  to  recommend  them.  Do  n't  like  the proposition;  believe  it  was  intended  to  get  me  so  committed  that
'J.l  i,
1 1 1.  "^  •■  ■ ■:v:n'
■,.!,■.
26  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
if  I  complained  of  the  other  appointments  it  might  be  attributed to  disappointment  in  this."
While  still  a  member  of  Congress,  he  was  appointed,  in  1831, by  Gov.  Reynolds,  brigadier -general  of  volunteers  in  the  expedi- tion against  the  Indians  in  what  is  known  as  the  Black-Hawk War.  That  expedition  marched  to  Rock  Island,  and  at  its approach-  the  Indians  crossed  the  Mississippi  and  concluded  a treaty  of  peace.  Gen.  Duncan  had  no  opportunity  to  distinguish himself  in  his  military  service  otherwise  than  by  his  dignified  and soldierly  conduct  to  acquire  the  respect  and  good-will  of  his command,  and  add  to  Ins  very  great  popularity.
He  was  elected  governor  of  Illinois  in  1834,  over  his  competi- tor, William  Kinney,  who  had  been  lieutenant-governor  of  the State  and  was  a  man  of  great  popularity.  Duncan's  majority  was about  seven  thousand  over  Kinney.
It  was  during  his  time,  though  attaching  more  to  Gov.  Reyn- olds' period,  that  some  singular  changes  in  official  positions occurred,  which  are  thus  stated:  "Reynolds  was  elected  governor of  Illinois  in  1S30.  Zadoc  Casey  at  the  same  time  elected  lieu- tenant-governor. In  1832,  when  three  congressmen  were  appor- tioned to  Illinois,  Joseph  Duncan,  the  previous  sole  member from  the  State,  was  elected  from  the  northern  district,  and  Chas. Slade  and  Zadoc  Casey  from  the  two  southern  districts.  Casey was  lieutenant-governor  and  his  election  to  congress  made  AV.  L. D.  Ewing,  president  of  the  senate,  acting  lieutenant-governor. In  1834,  Slade  died  and  Gov.  Reynolds  was  elected  to  fill  this vacancy,  and  also  for  the  full  term  following.  Hence  Ewing, who  had  become  lieutenant-governor  when  Casey  went  to  con- gress, became  governor  when  Reynolds  went  there  also,  and occupied  the  executive  chair  for  half  a  month.  And  another queer  transposition  was  that  Duncan,  sitting  congressman  for seven  years  past  while  he  was  East,  was  elected  governor  to  suc- ceed Reynolds,  and  Reynolds,  the  State  governor,  was  sent  to congress  to  succeed  Duncan.  Duncan,  on'  his  return  home  in the  fall,  met  Reynolds  somewhere  at  a  relay  station  on  the  Na- tional road,  and,  after  tlieir  cordial  greeting,  Duncan  said:  "Well,
'{7  "J  A
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  2/
Governor,  we  are  changing  horses  here,  aint  we  ?  You  are  going from  governor  to  congress,  and  I  am  going  from  congress  to governor."  ''Yes,""  said  the  old  ranger,  "and  we  are  changing horses  poUticahy,  too.  You  are  riding  the  Yankee  mule  and  I am  going  to  keep  astraddle  of  Old  Hickory.''
The  pith  of  this  story,  which  Gov.  Reynolds  related,  was  that Duncan  had  been  counted  until  the  time  of  his  election  as  gov- ernor as  a  Jackson  man,  and  now  had  become  an  Adamsand- Clay  Whig,  while  Reynolds  was  now  a  Jackson  Democrat,  when he  had  previously  been  counted  as  a  sort  of  out-rider  by  the decided  Jackson  men.
In  this  political  contest,  parties  first  began  to  be  formed  on national  issues.  Prior  to  1832,  elections  were  decided  more upon  the  popularity  of  the  men  who  were  the  candidates  and upon  local  questions  rather  than  national.
Joseph  Duncan  had  been  the  ardent  supporter  of  Gen.  Jackson in  the  contest  for  the  presidency  in  1824-182 8,  and,  in  1832, Jackson  arbitrarily,  as  he  thought,  had  suspended  the  functions of  the  United-States  I3ank  as  the  financial  agent  of  the  govern- ment; he  had  vetoed  bills  appropriating  money  for  improvement of  the  great  rivers,  Mississippi,  Illinois,  and  Wabash,  and  for  the harbor  at  Chicago.  Duncan,  having  the  interests  of  his  constit- uents at  heart,  felt  obliged  to  break  with  the  administration,  and in  manly  addresses  sent  through  circulars  to  the  people  of  Illi- nois, advised  them  of  the  reasons  why  he  could  not  support  the administration.  He  did  not  canvas  the  State  in  person,  when  a candidate  for  governor.  The  public  interest  demanded  that  he should  remain  at  his  post  as  member  of  Congress.  The  medium he  employed  to  reach  the  people  was  the  press.
After  the  election  of  Gen.  Jackson  in  1832,  Martin  Van  Buren was  presented,  with  tlie  sanction  of  Gen.  Jackson,  as  his  suc- cessor. PVjm  1832  onward,  until  his  election  in  1836,  members of  the  Democratic  parly  in  Illinois  began  to  take  sides  for  or against  Mr.  Van  Buren,  the  larger  portion  in  his  favor.  At  that time  was  first  introduced  into  Illinois  politics  the  convention system,  and  which,  by  its  opponents,  was  charged  to  be  the introduction  of  the  machine  politics  of  New  York.
28  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  I
Many  prominent   Democrats,  while   claiming   to   support   the  |
administration  of  Gen.  Jackson,  refused  to  support  Mr.  VanBuren  |
as  his  successor.  Their  loss,  however,  was  made  up  to  the  Dem- ocratic party  by  the  adhesion  of  many  heretofore  supporters  of Mr.  Clay.  The  Democrats  who  refused  to  support  Mr.  VanBuren and  the  large  party  of  those  who  had  been  Adams-and-Clay  men united  upon  Judge  White  of  Tennessee  as  the  opponent  of  Mr> VanBuren  at  the  election  of  1836.  ^
Judge  AVhite  had  always  been  a  warm  supporter  of  Gen.  Jack-  |
son.      Since  that   time,   parties  in   Illinois  have  been  based  on  |
national  issues,  and  the  convention  system,  when  first  introduced  |
by  the   friends  of  ]Mr.  Van  Buren,  was  bitterly  attacked    by  his  |
opponents,  but  has  since  become  commonly  used  by  all  parties.  |
Joseph   Duncan  was  one  of  those  hostile  to  Mr.  Van  Buren,  |
and  in  his  race  for  governor  in  1834,  was  supported  by  all   the  I
opponents  of  Van  Buren  from  the  Democratic  party,  and  by  the  j
opponents  of  Gen.  Jackson  generally,  and  by  a  sufficiency  of  the  |
regular  Jackson  men  to  elect  him  governor  of  Illinois  over  Mr. Kinney,  who  was  supported  by  the  friends  of  Mr.  VanBuren.  It was  stated   that  Joseph  Duncan's  opposition  to  Gen.  Jackson's  |
administration    must    have    been   caused    by   disappointment   or  I
prejudice,  or  he  would  not  have  left  his  old  friends.     Replying  to  f
this  charge  in  a  public  address,  he  said  such  was  not  the  fact; that  he  never  asked  a  favor  of  the  administration  of  Gen.  Jackson or  Mr.  VanBuren;  that  he  had  ever  been  on  good  terms  with Gen.  Jackson,  and  he  had  no  personal  difference  with  Mr.  Van Buren;  that  Gen.  Jackson  had  offered  him,  through  a  friend,  any  ;,
office  he  would  choose  to  accept;  and   that  he  had  appointed  I
several  of  his  relations  to  important  offices  without  his  solicita-  |
tion.     So  far,  therefore,  from  his  ever  having  any  personal  cause  |
of  dissatisfaction,  he  had  ever  enjoyed  the  friendship  and  kept  up  I
the  most  friendly  intercourse  with  Gen.  Jackson,  and  he  would now  say  what  he  had  said  a  tliousand  times  before,  that  he  never doubted  Gen.  Jackson's  intentions  to  do  right  and  to  carry  out the  pledges  of  himself  and  jjarty.     He  believed  a  better  patriot  ^
or  a  man  who  more  sincerely  loved  his  country  never  lived;  but,  |
;/.  '1.
j;    ;n    i>}i^;
U/'
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  29
unfortunately  for  his  fame  and  the  welfare  of  his  country,  he  came into  office  at  too  advanced  an  age  to  give  his  personal  attention to  those  vast  reforms  he  had  pledged  himself  to  carry  out,  and from  his  advanced  age  there  resulted  a  loss  of  intellect  but  too perceptible  to  all  who  knew  him.  The  glories  of  his  military character,  the  sauvity  of  his  manners,  his  fame,  and  his  power brought  around  him,  from  curiosity  to  see  the  hero,  from  admir- ation of  his  noble,  frank,  and  chivalrous  bearing,  or  from  interest, thousands  and  thousands  of  individuals  from  the  old  and  new world,  and  none  were  ever  turned  away,  but  all  were  admitted  to his  presence,  and  went  away  delighted  with  his  kind  and  hospit- able treatment.  Very  soon  after  Gen.  Jackson  came  into  office, from  incidents  and  intrigue  well  known,  Mr.  Van  Buren  became  a favorite  of  the  general,  and  kindly  relieved  him  from  the  burdens of  his  official  station,  leaving  the  venerable  old  president  to  do the  more  delightful  offices  of  the  parlor,  for  which  no  man  living was  ever  better  qualified.
Mr.  Van  liuren,  having  thus  obtained  the  general's  confidence, had  no  difficulty  in  introducing  his  own  principles  into  the  action of  the  administration,  "and  it  was  in  this  way,"'  said  he,  ''that  all Cien.  Jackson's  pledges  to  reduce  the  expenses  and  reform  the abuses  of  the  government  have  been  abandoned,  and  the  extrav- agant and  ambitious  policy  of  Mr.  Van  Buren  had  obtained prestige."
Gov.  Duncan  said:  "he  had  weighed  well  the  course  he  had pursued;  he  knew  to  oppose  the  administration  would  disappoint and  perhaps  displease  many  of  his  oldest  and  best  friends:  he anticipated  the  abuse  of  the  pensioned  press  and  the  ambitious office-seekers,  but  he  considered  his  duty  to  a  generous  people and  to  his  country  above  every  personal  consideration,  and, therefore  did  not  hesitate  to  oppose  every  measure  which  was calculated  to  increase  im{)ro[)erly.and  unnecessarily  the  public expenditure,  or  to  clothe  the  government  witli  improper  power, or  to  lead  to  prescription  or  threaten  the  safety  of  our  free  insti- tutions." He  asked:  "Was  it  not  a  fact  that  he  was  the  favorite of  the  Jackson  party  at  home,  having  been  elected  to  Congress
30  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  -r
over  a  talented  Adams  man  by  a  majority  of  one  thousand  votes? And  that  he  was  tlie  intimate  personal  friend  of  Gen.  Jackson and  every  member  of  his  party  at  Washington  at  the  time  he commenced  opposing  the  administration.  Where,  then,  was  the motive  for  him  to  abandon  them,  unless  it  was  from  a  sense  of duty  to  a  people  who  had  often  honored  him  with  their  confi- dence and  placed  him  as  their  sentinel  on  the  watch-tower  of their  liberties? ''
Gov.  Duncan  quoted  from  Jackson's  letter  to  the  legislature  of Tennessee,  Oct.  14,  1825,  where  he  pledges  himself  "to  serve  but one  term."  This,  as  well  as  his  oft-repeated  pledges  of  reform and  retrenchment  had  been  wholly  neglected,  nay,  had  been treated  with  contempt.  Here  it  will  be  perceived  that  under  the administration  of  Mr.  Van  Buren  the  expenditures  of  the  govern- ment amounted  to  $26,664,745  annually,  more  than  under  the administration  of  Mr.  Adams,  and  yet  Mr.  Adams  was  turned  out for  the  extravagance  of  his  administration.
In  June,  1828,  the  retrenchment  committee  reported  that  at least  one -third  of  the  clerks  in  the  department  in  Washington might  be  reduced  with  safety  to  the  public  interest,  yet  nothing was  done.  Gen.  Jackson  had  promised  to  hold  public  officers  to a  strict  accountability,  yet  it  was  notorious  that  millions  had  been plundered  from  the  treasury  without  an  effort  on  the  part  of  Mr. A^an  Buren  to  prevent  it.  He  had  even  appointed  defaulters  to office,  knowing  the  fact,  concealing  it  from  the  public.  I'he Democrats  need  not  count  Van  Buren  as  one;  he  was  no  Demo- crat. He  voted,  Xov.  9,  181 2,  in  the  city  of  Albany,  N.Y.,  for DeWitt  Glinton  as  a  candidate  for  the  presidency.  He  was found  in  opposition  to  his  country  at  a  moment  when  it  was bleeding  at  every  pore.  But  tlie  most  serious  thing  in  the  con- duct of  Gen.  Jackson  was  this:  that  in  September,  1833,  ^^^ ordered  the  public  deposits-in  the  bank  to  be  transferred  to selected  local  banks  and  entered  upon  the  "experiment"  whether these  could  not  act  as  fiscal  agents  for  the  government,  and whether  the  desire  to  get  the  deposits  would  not  induce  them  to adopt   sound   rules  of  currency.      During   the   next  session,  the
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNXAN.  3 1
senate  passed  a  resolution  condemning  his  conduct.  Jackson protested,  and,  after  a  hard  struggle,  the  resokition  was  ordered expunged  from  the  record,  Jan.  i6,  1837.  To  show  how  Joseph Duncan  regarded  party,  I  quote  agam  :
"  Many  compkiin  tliat  I  have  not  sufficiently  supported  the party  in  my  votes  in  Congress.  To  such  I  would  say  1  have investigated  every  subject  upon  which  I  have  been  called  upon to  act,  wiih  a  sincere  desire  of  obtaining  correct  information. My  votes  have  been  governed  by  my  best  judgment  and  an ardent  wish  to  promote  the  interest  and  honor  of  the  country, without  regard  to  what  either  party  supported  or  opposed.
"  Having  been  led  to  observe  early  in  hfe  that  a  man  who  has firmness  and  independence  enough  to  do  right  in  high  party times,  though  condemned  by  the  ambitious  and  selfish  dema- gogues, is  certain  to  be  sustained  by  the  patriotic  and  honorable men  of  all  parties,  I  was  at  no  loss  what  course  to  pursue  when  I entered  Congress.  That  man  who  is  so  weak  or  so  wicked  as  to vote  under  the  influence  of  party  feeling  or  party  discipline  will be  compelled,  almost  every  day,  to  abandon  his  principles,  if  he has  ever  advanced  any,  the  interest  of  his  constituents,  his  own honor,  and  his  independence,  and  I  envy  them  not  the  praise they  receive  from  any  party."
An  old  and  tried  friend  said  of  Gov.  Duncan:  "  Few  men  in our  country  have  evinced  more  independence.  Party  discipline nor  popular  excitement  ever  shook  the  firmness  of  his  purpose  or swerved  him  from  the  path  of  duty.
"  When  most  of  the  legislatures  and  governors  of  the  different States  raised  the  popular  claim  to  the  public  lands  within  their limits,  altliough  then  their  sole  representative,  he  promptly  pro- nounced their  claim  illegal,  and.  refused  to  give  it  his  counten- ance, for  which  he  was  opposed  by  many  of  the  leading  men  of the  State,  but  he  manfully  breas.t.ed  the  opposition  and  main- tained and  defended  his  opinions  before  the  people,  who  sus- tained him  by  a  large  majority  —  which  has  ever  put  to  rest  a subject  that  swept  over  the  West  and  South  like  a  tornado."
In  one  of  his  published   letters  Gov.  Duncan  says:   "It  is  my
I       .1-  i\i      l><  HW.
/fiti  jt-.'i.'ii
■y-r.uyt    ^jc.'ii;/.!' '■ »    K)    'jV.^'.'jb    oT
\yj'  '.l^fO   J
J    :  •/  O':   10  >}!:!>■'
,V    r.Jfl     lO   3rt ;jl!;      JVM      t
i,  ill)     77  (f!     I      I
/i  ^'    ;  n.tani(<I,  .v
s
32  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
deliberate  opinion,  formed  by  long  observation  of  the  spirit  of the  Van  Buren  party,  that  if  the  Whigs  shall  now  consent  to  or- ganize and  act  upon  the  same  principles,  elections  in  this  coun- try will  become  as  corrupt  as  they  are  in  the  rotten  boroughs  of England,  and  then  the  government  will  soon  end  in  angry  contest, civil  v/ar,  and  perhaps  despotism.
'•  Let  all  parties  throv;  off  the  shackles  which  party  machinery has  imposed  upon  them.  Then  they  will,  as  before  1830  when the  republic  was  pure,  march  to  the  polls  like  freemen  and vote  for  men  and  measures  on  their  own  judgment.  The  three issues  of  the  party  now  are  the  bank,  tariff,  and  distribution.  We are  for  a  well-guarded  bank,  chartered  by  the  United  States  to act  as  a  fiscal  agent  of  the  government,  to  regulate  our  currency -and  assist  commerce,  to  be  owned  and  directed  chiefly  by  private stockholders  who  shall  be  responsible  to  Congress  or  its  special .agent  for  their  strict  observance  of  the  law  and  their  fidelity  to the  government.  We  are  in  favor  of  a  tariff  or  tax  to  support the  governmcTit  being  levied,  first  upon  such  articles  of  necessity as  are  required  by  every  family.  We  are  opposed  to  proscription and  removals  of  competent  public  agents  for  their  political  opin- ions by  the  executive  government,  because  it  degrades  and  en- slaves the  public  officer  and  takes  away  his  responsibility  to  the law  and  the  people  and  makes  him  the  servile  tool  of  men  in power."
Gov.  Duncan,  in  his  first  messao^e  at  the  session  of  the  le^risla- ture  of  1834,  forcibly  called  the  attention  of  that  body  to  the subject  of  education  and  common -schools,  by  saying  :  "As  every country  is  })rosperous  and  respected  in  proportion  to  the  \'irtue and  intelligence  of  its  inhabitants,  the  subject  of  education  will doubtless  again  form  an  important  part  of  your  deliberations.  ^ It  becomes  us  to  use  every  exertion  in  our  power  to  instruct those  who  are  immediately  dependent  upon  us,  and  leave  to those  who  come  after  us  the  rich  revenues  to  be  derived  from the  land,  canals,  and  other  improvements;  to  form  a  permanenl fund  to  carry  out  any  plan  you  may  now  adopt  for  tlie  purposes of  education.     ''     *     A   government   like   ours,  controlled   and
GOV.   JOSEPH    DU^XAN.  33
carried  on  by  the  will  of  the  people,  should  be  careful  to  use  all the  means  in  its  power  to  enlighten  the  minds  of  those  who  are destined  to  exercise  so  important  a  trust.  This  and  every  con- sideration connected  with  the  virtue,  elevation,  and  happiness  of man,  and  the  character  and  prosperity  of  our  State,  and  of  our common  country,  calls  upon  you  to  establish  some  permanent system  of  common-schools  by  which  an  education  may  be  placed within  the  power,  nay,  if  possible,  secured  to  every  child  in  the ■State.  As  the  first  establishment  may,  from  want  of  experience, be  attended  with  difficulty  and  loss,  it  may  be  found  most  exped- ient to  commence  the  system  while  the  funds  are  small,  so  that w^hen  they  increase  we  may  have  acquired  experience,  by  which they  may  be  employed  more  judiciously."
In  the  same  message  he  urges  with  great  force  the  necessity  of the  completion  of  the  canal  from  the  Illinois  River  to  Lake Michigan,  wide  enough  for  steamboats  to  pass.  What  he  said  in that  message  of  the  future  of  Illinois  was  then  a  prediction,  but is  today  more  than  realized.
"The  slightest  reflection  upon  the  ease  with  which  our  prairies may  be  brought  under  cultivation,  compared  with  the  labor,  ex- pense, and  delay  which  attend  the  clearing  and  cultivating  a heavy-timbered  forest,  must  convince  the  most  skeptical  of  the splendid  results  which  will  follow  from  the  completion  of  a  work that  will  enable  us  to  sell  at  an  increased  value  our  agricultural, mineral,  and  other  i)roductions.
"  It  is  not  merely  in  the  ease  with  which  farms  are  opened  that I  the  superiority  of  the  agricultural  prospects  of  this  State  consist.
I  The  fertility  of  the  soil  yields  a  rich  product,  its  lightness  renders
(  it  easy  of  cultivation,  while  its  depth  almost  certainly  secures  the
I  prudent  and  industrious  farmer  against  those  vicissitudes  of  the
I  season  which  so  frequently  destroy  the  crops  in  other  countries.
"Judging  of  the  future  by  the  past  and  present  rapid  improve- ment, which  is  everywhere  in  progress  in  our  State,  and  estimat- ing its  future  population  by  the  inexhaustible  resources  of  the country  and  by. the  flood  of  enterprising  citizens  pouring  into  it from  every  quarter  of  the  civilized  world,  the  imagination  is  lost
3
,)■/.}:
,.h'  ^    WW.    -^1
{I'll  .n«/!i  .ii7jii{  £   {i-'(\:   'tf/i
34  GOV.  JOSEPH    DUNXAN.
in  contemplating  the  millions  of  happy  and  independent  people which  it  is  destined  to  sustain,  and  whose  surplus  will  scarcely find  room  to  flont  upon  the  majestic  rivers,  the  Mississippi  and St.  Lawrence,  flowing  to  the  north  and  to  the  south,  which  Provi- dence, in  the  fullness  of  its  beneficence,  has  provided  on  a  scale equaled  only  by  the  vast  country  they  are  destined  to  accom- modate."
The  public  mind  was  not  then  ready  to  adopt  the  views  of Gov.  Duncan  in  relation  to  common -schools,  but  his  views  then advanced  had  their  influence  on  public  opinion,  and  led,  in  1854- ^55,  to  the  adoption  into  a  law  of  a  bill  prepared  by  Ninan  W. Edwards  for  a  system  of  common-schools,  now  in  force,  and  the provisions  of  which  are  very  similar  to  those  of  the  law  adopted in  1824,  of  which  Gov.  Duncan  was  the  author.
Gov.  Duncan  did  not  recommend  the  charter  of  the  State  Bank adopted  at  that  session,  but  expressed  an  opinion  against  it, saying :  "  Should  it  be  considered  expedient  to  establish  a  bank, a  measure  I  can  not  at  present  advise,  I  would  suggest  the  pro- priety of  providing  that,  in  no  event,  should  more  than  six  per cent  per  annum  be  divided  to  the  stockholders,  and  that  the stock  be  sold  at  public  auction  to  the  highest  bidder  and  the advance  on  it  put  into  the  State  treasury.  Banks  may  be  made exceedingly  useful  in  society,  not  only  affording  an  opportunity to  the  widow,  the  orphan,  and  the  aged  who  possess  capital  with- out the  capacity  of  employing  it  in  ordinary  business  to  invest  it in  such  stock,  but  by  its  use  the  young  and  enterprising  me- chanic, merchant,  and  tradesman  may  be  enabled  more  success- fully to  carry  on  his  business  and  improve  the  country.
"But,  unfortunately,  banks  are  too  often  established  to  benefit the  rich  speculator,  with  no  reference  to  the  interest  and  conven- ience of  the  industrious  poor,  which  has  justly  excited  a  jealousy among  the  people  against  all  banks,  and  should  admonish  us  to be  exceedingly  careful  in  the  first  permanent  introduction  of  them into  our, State."'
The  message  also  recommended  the  subject  of  colleges  in  the following  terms  :  "  The  State  has  also  at  its  disposal  a  consider-
'     .Of^.l     •■'     !.,0     fi
•:>d,t  .  05
f'.vf-:-    Hi.,
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  .  35
able  fund  for  the  establishment  and  support  of  colleges,  institu- tions of  learning  of  a  more  liberal  character,  although  of  less  vital importance  than  a  system  of  common -schools,  and  are  second only  to  them  in  importance.  Nor  can  the  inestimable  value  of education  be  properly  appreciated  until  provision  is  made  for instruction  in  the  higher  branches  of  literature.  The  subject  is one  whose  importance  will  doubtless  recommend  itself  to  )'our serious  consideration.''
The  legislature  of  1834-35  adjourned  without  taking  any  effi- cient action  upon  the  recommendations  of  Gov.  Duncan  on  the subject  of  education  and  the  canal.  A  call  of  the  legislature  was made  for  a  special  session  to  assemble  on  the  first  Monday  of December,  1835,  i^i^iii^ly  for  an  apportionment  of  representation under  the  census  of  that  year.  Gov.  Duncan  addressed  a  written message  to  this  legislature,  and,  after  advising  them  that  all  efforts to  obtain  a  loan  to  complete  the  canal  under  the  act  of  the  last session  had  failed,  he  recommended  them  to  authorize  a  loan  on a  pledge  of  the  fiith  of  the  State  for  such  a  sum  as,  in  their  dis- cretion, they  may  consider  necessary  for  a  vigorous  prosecution of  the  work.
The  loan  had  failed  to  be  made  under  the  law  of  the  previous session  because  the  faith  of  the  State  was  not  pledged  for  its repayment,  therefore,  the  recommendation  of  the  governor  for  a pledge  of  the  faith  of  the  State,  to  ])revent  a  failure  of  the  prose- cution of  the  work.  That  legislature  did  pass  a  law  authorizing  a loan  to  be  made  and  a  pledge  of  the  faith  of  the  State  given  for its  repayment.  Under  this  law  a  loan  was  made  and  was  the efificient  means  of  completing  the  building  of  the  Illinois -and- Michigan  Canal.
Gov.  Duncan,  in  his  message,  urged  the  importance  of  other works  of  intersial  improvement,  but  opposed  the  making  of  them by  the  State^  and  recommended  them  to  be  built  by  private  indi- vidual enterprise.  He  said:  "Several  other  important  works  of internal  improvement  have  been  authorized  by  law,  and  many others  are  spoken  of,  which  the  commerce  and  rapid  growth  of the  State  must  very  soon  require  to  be  put  into  operation,  and,
?r
U  ui;iH.  ■::  ^j\     Mi!     In   U").
n  r<
:i./  m.kA  \:  t>siiui'f"i;
r,-l   r
36  GOV.    JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  ;;/
while  I  would  urge  the  most  Hberal  support  of  all  such  measures, as  tending  with  perfect  certainty  to  increase  the  wealth'  resources, and  prosperity  of  the  State,  I  would  at  the  same  time  most  res- pectfully suggest  the  propriety  of  leaving  the  construction  of  all such  works,  whenever  it  can  be  done  consistently  with  the  gen- eral interest,  chiefly  to  individual  enterprise.  Experience  has shown  that  capitalists,  merchants,  and  the  farmers  of  the  country soonest  discern  the  necessity  and  importance  of  such  improve- ments; and  while  the  State  can,  by  a  liberal  subscription  to  the stock,  which  I  would  advise  in  all  cases,  give  impulse  to  work undertaken  by  individuals,  it  may  make  a  safe  investment  of  its funds  such  as  will  pay  the  interest  upon  any  loan  which  may  be required  and  render  as  much,  and  often  more,  service  to  the country  than  by  undertaking  the  whole  work.  When  we  look abroad  and  see  the  extensive  lines  of  internal  communication penetrating  almost  every  section  of  our  sister  states;  when  we see  the  canalboat  and  the  locomotive  bearing,  with  seeming triumph,  the  rich  productions  of  the  interior  to  the  rivers,  lakes, and  ocean,  almost  annihilating  time,  burden,  and  space,  what patriot  bosom  does  not  beat  high  with  a  laudable  ambition  to give  to  Illinois  her  full  share  of  these  advantages  which  are adorning  and  enriching  her  sister  states,  and  which  a  munificent Providence  seems  to  invite  by  the  wonderful  adaptation  of  our whole  country  to  such  improvements."
In  the  same  message  he  recommended  an  increase  of  the capital  stock  of  the  State  l^ank,  which  had  been  chartered  at  the pre\'ious  session  of  the  legislature.
At  the  regular  session  of  the  legislature  of  1836-37,  Gow Duncan  again  addressed  them  in  a  written  message,  which,  how- ever, was  nearly  a  reiteration  of  his  views  on  state  affairs  ex- pressed in  his  message  at  the  previous  called  session.  He  again pressed  the  estabHshment  of  common -schools  and  repeats  what he  said  in  the  preamble  to  his  bill  of  1824-25  as  follows  :  "To enjoy  our  rights  and  liberties  we  must  understand  them;  their security  and  protection  ought  to  be  the  first  object  of  a  free people;  and  it  is  a  well-established  fact  that  no  nation  has  ever
/;
i\K.:iO']r.*i    iHir.   tu?rrrjii
A:  .'TJ  \'i:ti\
\'  ;/       .  vriv:   D\n(\N
i\}]-u    .;;/'Kr->.'    ^.7^^>^f;
i'i-r      ilwi.l,!,;.!    J:   i^3:V/   iV^i,'     Jiititl     JOfl
GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  37
continued  long  in  the  enjoyment  of  civil  and  political  freedom which  was  not  both  virtuous  and  enlightened,  and  believing  that the  advancement  of  literature  always  has  been  and  ever  will  be the  means  of  developing  more  fully  the  rights  of  men;  that  the mind  of  every  citizen  in  a  republic  constitutes  the  basis  of  its strength  and  happiness,  it  is,  therefore  considered  the  peculiar duty  of  a  free  government  like  ours  to  encourage  and  extend  the improvement  of  the  intellectual  energies  of  the  whole."
On  the  subject  of  internal  improvements  he  says  his  mind  had undergone  no  change,  but  urged  again  the  propriety  of  the  State taking  stock  to  aid  in  constructing  public  works.  This  message is  mainly  confined  to  views  on  national  politics  and  arguing against  the  danger  of  the  great  increase  of  the  power  and  patron- age of  the  executive  of  the  United  States.
The  legislature  at  this  session  passed  the  famous  bill  "  to establish  and  maintain  a  general  system  of  internal  improve- ments,'"  which  provided  for  the  work  being  done  by  the  State and  on  its  faith  and  credit.  This  bill,  when  passed,  was  laid before  the  council  of  revision,  then  composed  of  the  governor and  judges  of  the  supreme  court,  for  its  approval.  The  bill  was not  approved  by  the  council,  but  was  returned  with  the  objection "that  such  works  can  only  be  made  safely  and  economically  in  a free  government  by  citizens  or  by  independent  corporations, aided  or  authorized  by  government."
The  bill,  when  returned  with  the  objections  of  the  council,  was again  passed,  the  objections  of  the  council  notwithstanding,  and became  a  law.  The  objection  of  the  council  was  in  conformity with  the  views  of  Gov.  Duncan,  as  expressed  in  his  message  at the  called  session,  and  the  objection  had  his  concurrence.
In  reviewing  the  recommendations  of  CtOv.  Duncan,  it  is  mani- fest they  were  wise  and  statesman-like,  and  their  wisdom  has  been manifested  by  the  subsequent  experience  of  the  State.
The  following  message  to  the  legislature  of  1837  gives  -more fully  his  views  in  relation  to  the  banks  of  the  State,  the  internal improvement  act,  and  the  Illinois-and-Michigan  Canal,  the  three subjects  which  then  engrossed  the  attention  of  the  people  and
j-'M'
38  CxOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
the  politicians  of  the  State.  Had  his  counsels  prevailed,  Illinois would  have  escaped  the  losses  entaileci  by  the  failure  of  the banking  system  and  the  system  of  internal  improvements,  and the  Illinois-and-xSlichigan  Canal  would  have  been  constructed  at first  as  a  ship-canal,  and  from  the  date  of  its  opening  been  a great  national  highway.
July  II,  1837,  Vandalia.  Gov.  Duncan  says:  "In  my  message at  the  opening  of  the  last  session  it  was  my  happiness  to  congrat- ulate you  on  the  prosperity  then  so  eminently  enjoyed  by  every portion  of  our  beloved  country,  and  from  my  inmost  heart  did  I rejoice  to  see  the  industrious  citizen  everywhere  reap  the  rich rewards  of  his  labor;  and  although  even  then  I  was  not  without strong  apprehensions  of  an  early  reverse,  I  am  confident  no human  forecast  could  have  anticipated  so  sudden  a  calamity  as has  been  brought  upon  the  country  by  the  action  of  the  Federal government  upon  its  currency.
"At  the  time  the  president  of  the  United  States  assunied  the responsibility  of  ordering  the  public  moneys  to  be  removed  from their  legal  deposit  in  the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  for  the  pur- pose, as  he  avowed,  of  preventing  the  recharter  of  the  institution by  Congress,  there  never  was  a  sounder  currency  or  a  more healthy  state  of  things  in  the  world.  To  effect  this  great  object, namely,  that  of  destroying  the  United -States  Bank,  rival  institu- tions were  to  be  created;  and  it  will  be  remembered  that  im- mediately after  the  removal  of  the  deposits  by  the  government, parties  commenced  establishing  state  banks,  whilst  state  legislat- ures, deluded  by  the  fallacious  promises  of  advantages  to  be  de- rived from  the  deposits  to  be  made  in  their  institutions,  which were  to  be  fiscal  agents  of  the  government,  readily  fell  into  the measure.  As  m.ight  have  been  expected,  hundreds  of  new  banks instantly  sprang  up.  Their  enormous  issues  of  irredeemable  paper afforded  the  inducement  of  univer.sal  extravagant  speculation,  and gave  us  what  all  must  now  regard  as  vv'orthless  and  depraved currency.
"  Before  the  public  were  aware  of  the  ruin  which  this  wild sclieme  portended,  the  executive  and  a  portion  of  its  party,  see-
ril     b  I ;■;.■•■'>;:    r:;j::3f:^     h':*-'!
GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  39
ing  their  error,  it  would  seem,  endeavored  to  escape  its  conse- quences by  amusing  the  people  with  the  absurd,  impracticable project  of  an  exclusive  hard -money  currency.  I  say  absurd,  for as  well  might  the  executive  of  the  United  States  expect  to  compel the  citizens  of  the  great  valley  to  abandon  the  use  of  steamboats and  resume  the  flat-bottomed  barge  in  the  navigation  of  its  thou- -sand  streams  and  rivers,  as  to  force  them  again  to  give  up  a isound  paper  currency,  at  all  times  convertible  into  specie  with  all its  adaptedness  to  the  purposes  of  the  commerce  and  business  of the  country.     *         *
"  It  was  in  view  of  the  motives  which  dictated  this  measure and  in  the  anticipation  of  some  of  these  results  that  I  opposed  at first  the  establishment  of  the  State  Bank  of  Illinois,  as  I  did  also last  winter  both  the  increase  of  its  capital  and  that  of  the  bank  at Shawneetown.  But  it  is  easier  sometimes  to  trace  the  causes  of evil  than  to  find  out  a  remedy  for  them.
"The  enquir}',  however,  is  important  and  useful,  as  the  dis- covery of  the  cause  not  unfrequently  suggests  the  remedy.  *^  * Probably  as  much  as  can  at  present  be  effected  will  be  to  place our  own  State  in  such  an  attitude  as  to  parry  off  the  blow  and stay  as  far  as  possible  the  eft'^ect  of  the  crisis  upon  our  interests, until  Congress,  the  only  legitimate  power  under  our  constitution, shall  regulate  the  currency  and  restore  it  to  its  former  sound  con- dition and  beneficent  action.      '"  '^
"In  the  midst  of  the  disasters  which  have  already  fallen  on the  commercial  world  and  which  are  threatening  us  on  all  sides, a  favorable  opportunity  occurs  to  escape  from  the  perils  of  that system  of  internal  improvement  adopted  last  winter,  which  to  my apprehension  is  fraught  with  evil;  and  for  the  reason  assigned when  I  refused  my  assent  to  the  enactment  passed  in  its  favor,  as well  as  for  existing  pecuniary  troubles  and  derangements,  /  ;/^7£' recoifi7nc)id  its  repeal.
"Aware  that  it  is  always  difficult  and  sometimes  grevious  at least  partially  to  abandon  even  a  bad  system  after  all  the  interests of  society  have  become  identified  with  it,  it  is  with  reluctance, much  more  in  regard   to  this  fact   than  hesitation  as  to  the  pro-
:/:^:i   Of!;
ii.i-  I  tJji     :!'}!>
'(r    .;;;  S'si^^ii    hi\\.
1   i      riij     rt(,>  VTifrq   O
40  •  GOV,   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  . /
priety  of  the  step,  that  I  urge  the  recommendation;  especially, too,  as  my  conviction  is  deep  and  firm  that  such  undertakings belong  rather  to  arbitrary  and  despotic  governments  than  to  the republican  institution  of  a  free  people,  as  by  the  power  of  patron- age and  official  influence  they  tend  to  corrupt  the  many  and  exalt the  few.  In  all  the  melancholy  histories  of  departed  liberty,  the process  of  decay  commenced  in  the  people's  neglect  or  disuse  of their  own  rights  and  privileges,  and  progressed  in  the  ignorant and  fatuous  transfer  of  them  to  their  rules.  And  of  all  the  dark symptoms  which  indicate  the  evil  at  work  in  our  system,  none seems  so  fearful,  so  alarming  as  the.  steady,  nay,  rapid  departure of  power  from  the  hands  of  the  people  to  the  hands  of  the  gov- ernment, a  fact  sufficiently  obvious  to  all  who  have  observed  the political  movements  of  the  last  eight  days.
"  If  to  the  power  and  influence  which  necessarily  belong  to political  station  there  be  added  the  immense  patronage  no less  involved  in  extended  public  works,  there  may  come  a struggle  between  the  people  and  their  rulers,  but  too  late  for  the former  to  regain  what  the  latter  have  stolen.  Let  the  present pernicious  system  be  rescinded,  and  in  its  stead  adopt  the  safer, the  more  generous,  more  economical,  more  expeditious,  and  in every  respect  the  preferable  plan  of  encouraging  private  individ- uals and  corporations  by  suitable  aid  from  the  State,  and  thus escape  the  intrigue,  venality,  waste,  and  corruption  inherent  in that  patronage  which  must  grow  out  of  such  a  system  as  the present.     *  *
"A  report  and  correspondence  of  the  canal  commissioners  are also  transmitted.  By  the  correspondence  it  will  be  seen  that  the calling  of  the  legislature  together  has  been  urged  upon  the  execu- tive by  them  as  necessary  for  the  carrying  on  of  that  favorite work  and  because  of  the  probable  difticulty  of  collecting  the second  instalment  on  the  lots  sold  in  Chicago,  which  fell  due  on the  2oth  of  June  last.
"  Having  received  a  letter  from  the  board  informing  me  they would  make  a  full  report  to  the  legislature  of  all  their  operations, present  and  plans  for  the  future,  I  will  leave  this  subject,  with  an
GOV.   JOSEPH    DU^X"AN,  4 1
earnest  recommendation  of  it  to  your  fostering  care,  hoping  this great  Avork  will  be  carried  forward  with  all  expedition  consistent with  a  just  economy.
"As  I  consider  it  a  national  work  and  ourselves  as  managers of  the  fund  appropriated  by  Congress  for  its  accomplishment,  it would  seem  to  be  our  duty  faithfully  to  apply  these  means;  and upon  its  completion,  after  a  suitable  reservation  for  repair's  and improvements,  and  with  due  consideration  for  the  rights  of  the State,  it  will  be  equally  our  duty  and  interest  to  make  this  canal free  as  the  waters  of  the  lakes.
"Unpleasant  as  the  subject  is  to  myself  and  maybe  to  others, I  feel  bound  again  to  call  your  attention,  and,  through  you,  that of  your  constituents,  to  the  aftairs  of  our  national  government, especially  of  its  executive  branch,  to  the  action  of  which  I  confi- dently believe  many  of  the  evils  we  are  now  sutfering  and  with which  we  are  threatened  are  fairly  to  be  attributed.  There  must be  a  change;  there  must  be  reform.  The  public  treasury  must  be again  firmly  placed  in  the  custody  of  law,  and  all  power  and control  over  it  by  the  executive  of  the  United  States  must  be repudiated.
"The  executive  should  be  prohibited,  under  severe  penalties, from  establishing  a  rule  in  violation  of  law  to  collect  this  revenue in  one  quarter  of  the  country  in  specie  only,  and  in  another  to collect  in  bank  paper;  or  from  using  any  other  means  for  divert- ing the  specie,  which  is  the  only  safe  basis  of  exchange,  from  the ordinary  channels  of  business.  Congress  must  regulate  the  cur- rency by  law  and  place  it  out  of  executive  or  oft^icial  power, either  to  try  experiments  or  make  speculations  upon  it.
"The  patronage  of  the  executive  must  be  reduced  and  his power  to  remove  public  officers  so  modified  as  to  prevent  his displacing  a  faithful  and  competent  man,  either  to  gratify  party malice  or  to  intimidate  the  exercise  of  the  elective  franchise;  so, also,  as  will  secure  him  against  executive  tyranny  and  all  control over  his  official  acts,  except  such  as  the  law  imposes;  that  his qualifications,  fidelity,  and  ability  may  be  his  only  hope  of  retain- ing office.      This  control   over   the  public  press   and  Congress,
J^
;.  •,!    ;;•;    'OJ
nrsn'iv/   t->  ,;i>m'
ni  'll.i,.(:.-i\
42  GOV.  JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  ,  ;^
which  has  been  so  powerfully  exercised  by  the  appointment  of newspaper  editors  and  members  of  the  senate  and  house  of  rep- resentatives to  high  and  lucrative  offices  by  the  executive,  should as  far  as  possible  be  obviated.
"  The  constitutional  and  legal  right  of  each  or  both  houses  of Congress  to  examine  into  the  official  conduct  of  every  officer  in the  government  should  be  clearly  established,  as  it  is  the  only efficient  check  the  people  have  upon  their  public  servants,  whilst public  expenditures  must  be  reduced  and  more  economy  and simplicity  in  the  administration  of  government  be  observed  be- fore we  can  ever  be  secure  of  those  inestimable  blessings  hitherto enjoyed  under  our  constitution  and  excellent  form  of  government. I  pray,  gentlemen,  that  the  State  may  experience  the  full  measure of  your  patriotism.
"Never  was  wisdom  from  above  to  direct  your  counsels  more to  be  implored  than  at  this  moment.  Party  spirit  in  its  mildest form  has  ever  been  found  an  enemy  to  liberty  and  sound  legisla- tion, but  when  it  is  the  offspring  of  ambition  and  avarice  directed by  designing  bad  men  in  high  places,  it  begets  a  blind  devotion and  infuriated  zeal,  which  shuts  the  door  against  all  reason,  jus- tice, and  patriotism.
"  May  Ood,  in  his  infinite  wisdom  and  mercy,  avert  such  an evil  from  this  country  and  grant  that  justice  and  the  laws  may prevail,  and  every  man  in  this  broad  land  may  sit  down  again with  confidence  under  the  shadow  of  the  constitution  in  the peaceable  and  quiet  enjoyment  of  his  rights  and  privileges.  No power  must  be  allowed  to  exist  in  this  country  superior  to  that of  the  people,  or  that  docs  not  acknowledge  the  supreme  and inflexible  authority  of  the  law  as  the  rule  and  action  both  for  the president  and  every  other  functionary  of  the  government.
AV^ith  great  respect,  your  obedient  servant,
Joseph  Duncan."
Dec.  4,  1838,  Joseph  Duncan,  on  retiring  from  office  as  gov- ernor, sent  a  message  to  the  senate  and  house  of  representatives, a  part  of  which  I  shall  give,  although  it  may  seem  a  repetition  of what  has  already  been  said  of  his  political  views,  etc.,  etc.
:^!..■^^^
u:I,  'Mil
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  43
He  says:  "In  relation  to  the  impolicy  of  our  system  of  internal improvements  my  mind  has  undergone  no  change  as  expressed in  my  recommendation  of  its  repeal  at  the  called  session  in  July, 1837.  How  to  get  rid  of  the  evil  with  which  we  are  threatened by  this  improvident  act  without  too  great  a  sacrifice  of  public  and private  interests  is  a  subject  which  should  occupy  your  serious and  patriotic  deliberation.
"  1  again  recommend  that  tlie  works  of  improvement  be  left  in the  hands  of  the  citizens  of  the  State  or  to  corporations  created by  law,  and  that  the  government  have  as  little  to  do  with  them as  possible,  except  to  encourage  all  such  undertakings  by  an equal  and  liberal  subscription  for  their  stock.''     *  *'
Speaking  of  men  appointed  to  office  by  the  executive  of  the United  States,  he  says:  "They  were  for7?ierly  appointed  for  their qualifications  to  serve  the  public.  They  are  now  appointed  to obey  and  serve  their  party-leaders.  Foniierly^  the  public  oflicers were  not  permitted  to  become  active  politicians  for  the  purpose of  influencing  elections  in  the  State,  and  were  left  to  vote  and speak  like  free  men;  now^  from  the  president  down,  they  are  all active  politicians,  weilding  the  influence  of  office,  the  power  of money,  and  the  press  to  sustain  themselves.  Under  the  pro- scriptive  and  arbitrary  policy  of  the  executive,  the  public  officer loses  his  independence  of  action  and  speech,  the  most  essential attribute  of  liberty.  It  is  a  maxim  that  "he  who  enslaves  a  citi- zen is  a  tyrant,"  and  if  so,  those  who  permit  it  can  not  long expect  to  retain  the  name  of  free  men.
"How  to  remedy  these  evils  should  be  a  serious  subject  of enquiry  with  you  and  every  reflecting  citizen  in  our  country, without  distinction  of  party,  for  when  the  ocean  heaves  there  is no  certainty  whose  bark  will  be  able  successfully  to  ride  upon  its troubled  waves.  I  can  see  no  hope  of  reform  but  for  the  legis- latures of  the  different  states  to  inJitruct  their  senators,  and  the people  their  representatives  in  Congress  to  vote  for  all  measures to  reduce  the  executive  patronage,  the  receipts  and  expenditures of  government,  and  to  prohibit  the  removal  of  public  oflicers  on party  grounds  or  for  any  cause  without  assigning  a  reason  to  the
>i    lO
••    !  ■  .{   .>,'>iir}JoViut\  1o
■y\l.'   '\.-^  '.
44  GOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
senate  for  such  removal;  to  prohibit  members  of  Congress  from receiving  appointments  from  the  executive  of  the  United  States for  at  least  two  years  after  the  expiration  of  the  time  for  whicli they  may  have  been  elected,  and  to  prohibit,  under  severe  penal- ties, any  officers  of  the  United -States  government  from  persuad- ing, bribing,  or  otherwise  influencing  votes  or  elections,  from conducting  a  newspaper  press,  from  bribing  or  influencing  any editor  of  a  paper  to  support  any  political  party,  or  contributing money  for  either  of  the  before -named  purposes.  Those  powers form  the  great  lever  with  which  the  executive  is  now  controlling the  politics  and  election  of  the  whole  country.  Correct  them and  all  other  abuses,  great  as  they  are,  will  become  comparatively harmless,  and  the  government,  which  now,  like  a  mighty  river, has  overflowed  the  whole  land,  will  sink  quietly  within  its  limits, and  aspiring  men  will  once  more  rely  upon  patriotism,  virtue,  and talents  to  secure  those  places  of  honor  which  every  citizen  of  our country  should,  and  under  such  circumstances  would,  become ambitious  to  receive.
"The  work  on  the  Illinois-and-Michigan  Canal  has  progressed as  rapidly  as  could  be  expected.  $444,292  has  been  received by  the  canal  commissioners  on  account  of  lots  and  lands  sold. $500,000  of  State  bonds  were  sold  in  1836  and  1837  in  New York  at  five  per  cent  premium.*  This  and  other  sums  [naming them]  have  been  paid  to  the  canal  commissioners.  'I'he  balan.e remains  on  deposit  in  the  State  Bank  of  Illinois,  subject  to  the order  of  my  successor.  Considering  the  canal  now,  as  I  have ever  considered  it,  a  national  highway  to  be  kept  as  free  as  the waters  of  the  Mississippi  or  the  St.  Lawrence  and  that  the  Nation stands  pledged  to  furnish  the  entire  means  for  its  completion,  I would  further  recommend  that  application  be  made  for  further aid  to  enable  the  State  oi"  Illinois  to  construct  a  steamboat  canal
*  This  Gov.  J3uncan  did  for  the  State.  Going  to  New -York  City  at  hi> own  expense,  he  made  for  the  State  $50,000.  He  did  not  receive  one  farth- ing of  the  money  into  his  own  hands,  but  required  that  the  whole  sum,  princi- pal and  premium,  should  be  placed  in  the  bank  to  the  credit  of  the  Slate. — A/ion  [111.]  Telegraph,  May,  1842.
,/J
::>,/'!-.•■ )      .n!'('.jy^u  jioriw
:n'!v;  t!-
'■■--'--, ::.\^^:'  ?fM('  li,nj.
-'/..>!    i    'i;  .^/'Jii   icaii:)
i  GOV,   JOSEPH    DUXCAN.  45
I
from  Lake  Michigan   to  the  Illinois  River,  and  by  the  article  of
cession  and  Ordinance  of  1787,  Congress  and  the  Nation  stand I  committed  to  furnish  the  entire  means  of  completing  this  canal.
'-  That  our  public  highway  may  be  made  permanent  and  straight  is
greatly  to  be  desired  as  a  measure  of  general  utility.
"A  mineralogical  and  agricultural  survey  of  the  State  could not  but  be  attended  -.vitb.  the  most  favorable  results.
"A  well -arranged  and  properly -disciplined  militia  gives  to  a I  free  people  the  confidence  of  a  strong  man.
"  Every  possible  encouragement  should  be  given  to  institutions
of  learning,  whether  the  common -school  or  the  college;  they  are
the  corner-stones  of  our   free  government.      Education   is   the
.  foundation  of  every  enjoyment  of  man  in  this  world  and  of  bless-
Iings  in  the  world  to  come.     *  '^
"'In   taking   leave  of  you.  gentlemen,   allow  me   to  offer  the '  assurance  of  my  sincere  good  wishes  and  friendly  feeling  for  every
one  of  you.     The  violence  with  which  I  have  been  assailed  by my  political  opponents  during  the  whole  time  I   have  been  in r  office  has  caused  no  rankling  in  my  bosom.     The  plain  manner
I  in  which  I  have  felt  it  my  duty  to  speak  of  what  I  sincerely  be-
f  lieved  to  be  errors  and  abuses  of  the  party  now  in  power  I  knew
I  well  would   bring  their  vengeance  with  all   its  force  upon   me,
I  and  had   I  loved  ease  and  office  more  than  my  duty,  I  should
have  chosen  a  different  course.     But  I  owe  too  strong  a  debt  of gratitude  to  the  people  of  Illinois  and  hold  the  constitution  and freedom  of  our  country  in  too  much  esteem  ever  to  shrink  from I  the  discharge  of  my  duty.''
In  the  same  message  he  thus  discusses  the  subject  of  intem- perance: "The  dreadful  ravages  and  baneful  effects  of  intemper- ance are  felt  and  acknowledged  in  our  whole  country.  Christian philanthropists  and  statesmen,  not  only  of  this,  but  of  every  part of  the  civilized  world,  are  now  engaged  in  exposing  the  extent and  evils  of  this  degrading  and  most  alarming  vice,  and  some  of our  sister  states  have  undertaken,  by  legislative  provision,  to eradicate  the  evil  from  among  them,  and  I  would  most  respect- fully and  earnestly  commend  the  subject  as  one  worthy  of  your
^I-
,5     ?.-■    :,.     i.i/i'uC     ic
•d    !'>iiJi-?;:    ii'.j.i'!     'Vi;
,i,.   I  ..':
;lfii^./l?.  oJ    Tjv^
46  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNXAN.
serious  consideration.  In  conclusion,  allow  me,  gentlerac]],  to remind  you  of  our  obligations  to  divine  Providence  for  the  un- usual share  of  health,  and  for  the  abundant  crops  and  im[)rove- ments  with  which  our  State  has  been  blessed  during  the'last  }ear. To  secure  a  continuance  of  these  blessings  and  success  to  your labors  as  legislators  we  must  look  to  and  invoke  the  blessings  of God,  who  holds  the  destiny  of  the  world  in  His  almighty  hand, and  who  has  said  that  nothing  shall  prosper  that  does  not  ac- knowledge Him  as  its  author.  "
In  1842,  Joseph  Duncan  was  again  nominated  as  a  candidate for  the  office  of  governor,  at  the  ensuing  election  in  August,  this time  by  the  Whig  party.  The  Democrats  had  already,  in  Decem- ber, 1841,  nominated  Adam  "Wilson  Snyder  of  St.  Clair  County  as their  candidate  for  the  same  office.
In  this  contest,  a  new  element  appeared,  which  for  several years  v/as  a  disturbing  element  of  no  small  magnitude  in  the politics  of  the  State.  In  1839  and  1840,  the  Latter- Day  Saints or  Mormons,  driven  from  the  State  of  Missouri,  had  arrived  in Illinois  and  settled  in  Hancock  County,  and  commenced  build- ing the  City  of  Xauvoo,  \\'hich  they  intended  to  make  the  spirit- ual, if  not  the  temporal  capital  of  their  religious  sect.
In  the  spring  of  1840,  a  bill  for  an  act  for  the  incorporation  of the  City  of  Nauvoo  was  introduced.  The  Whig  and  Democratic members  of  the  legislature  vied  with  one  another  in  subscribing to  the  new  sect,  each  party  hoping  to  gain  their  political  support. As  a  result  of  such  a  time-serving  policy,  the  Mormons  obtained for  their  city  a  charter  conferring  the  most  extraordinary  powers upon  the  corporation,  making  the  city  a  petty  sovereignty  above and  superior  to  the  laws  of  the  State.
In  1840,  the  Mormons  had  given  their  support  to  the  Whigs, having  been  exi)elled  from  Missouri  by  Gov.  Luburn  W.  Boggs, a  Democrat.  Adam  W.  Snyder  had  been  State  senator  in  1840, and  with  Stephen  A.  Douglas,' Chen  secretary  of  State,  had  been active  in  procuring  the  passage  of  the  act  incorporating  the  City of  Nauvoo.  Accordingly,  Joseph  Smith  issued  his  proclamation directing  his  followers  to  support  Snyder.  The  Mormon  popula- tion of  Hancock  County  was  estimated  at  16,000.
.l-.j  .jr-
GOV.    JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  47
The  support  of  tlie  ^lormons  was,  however,  a  two-edged  sword, and  the  anti-Mormon  feeHng,  fostered  by  Duncan  and  his  friends, was  rising  rapidly  and  threatened  to  overwhehn  Snyder  at  the approaching  election,  when  he  suddenly  died.  The  Democrats then  placed  in  nomination  Judge  Thomas  Ford,  who,  though well  known,  was  not  prominently  connected  with  any  recent  po- litical movement,  and  his  views  on  the  political  issues  of  the  day were  unknown.  He  thus  received  the  support  of  the  whole  party, Mormons  and  all,  and  was  elected  governor,  receiving  46,901 votes,  Avhile  Duncan  received  38,584.
With  this  defeat  of  his  candidacy  for  the  office  of  governor ended  Joseph  Duncan's  political  career  and  public  life.  One writer  speaking  of  his  public  life,  says:  "In  these  civic  offices, no  less  than  those  of  war,  Gov.  Duncan  built  up  a  reputation  of which  his  family,  his  friends,  the  State,  and  the  Nation  may  be justly  proud.  As  a  statesman,  he  had  a  well-balanced  mind, strict  integrity,  large  and  liberal  views,  ardent  love  of  country, which  knew  no  geographical  lines,  and  great  independence  in  the formation  and  expression  of  his  opinions,  were  his  prominent characteristics.  Had  he  been  ambitious  of  ofhce  rather  than true  to  his  principles  and  his  country,  he  could  easily  have  sailed upon  the  crest  of  the  popular  wave  and  enjoyed  to  the  end  of  his life,  high  political  stations.  But  Joseph  Duncan  was  no  time- serving demagogue,  and  when  the  Jackson  party,  with  which  he was  connected  and  which  was  then  in  triumphant  majority,  de- parted as  he  believed,  from  the  principles  upon  which  the  gallant chief  at  its  head  and  his  friends  had  conducted  the  presidential campaign,  he  did  not  hesitate  to  enter  his  solemn  protest  against such  departure,  and  to  place  himself  in  the  ranks  of  the  opposing minority.  This  movement  alone  achieved  for  him  more  true renown  than  any  office  in  the  gift  of  the  president  or  the  people could  have  confeiTed.''
It  is  for  the  hearer  rather  than  the  writer  to  say  how  just  is  the foregoing  panegyric.  Here  in  Jacksonville,  where  he  lived  and died,  it  is  proper  that  I  should  also  .say  something  of  his  charac- ter as  a  man,  a  citizen,  and  also  detail  some  of  the  incidents  of his  private  life.
..til      J    :i  >f
48  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
During  the  four  years  in  which  Joseph  Duncan  was  acting  as governor  of  IlHnois,  the  principal  questions  relating  to  national politics  discussed  and  considered  by  the  people  of  the  State  were those  growing  out  of  the  changes  introduced  by  the  Jackson- Van  Buren  Democracy,  and  the  principal  questions  in  domestic politics  were  those  relating  to  the  canal  and  other  internal  im- provements, the  banks,  and  the  remedy  for  the  stringency  of  tiie times  following  the  crash  of  1837.  Yet  in  his  own  State  and during  his  administration,  in  the  year  1837,  there  occurred  an event  of  momentous  importance  in  our  national  history.  1  refer to  what  vras  called  the  Alton  riots,  and  which  resulted  in  the death  of  Rev.  Elijah  Parish  Lovejoy,  Nov.  7.  You  are  all,  no doubt,  familiar  with  the  general  features  of  that  affair,  and  I  will not  attempt  to  portray  them  here.
\Vbile  it  may  be  a  question  whether  Mr.  Lovejoy's  death  was not  induced  by  his  own  recklessness,  and  while  it  may  be  doubted whether  Mr.  Lovejoy's  course  was  in  all  respects  judicious  or  the best  calculated  to  accomplish  the  purpose  he  had  in  view,  it  can not  be  doubted  that  the  pro-slavery  mob  at  whose  hands  he  met his  death  were  assembled  to  destroy  his  (fourth)  press,  as  more than  once  had  already  been  done,  and  if  possible,  to  compel  him to  suppress  his  anti-slavery  views.'-'
There  i-,  no  task  more  difficult  than  to  attempt  to  set  forth accurately  in  the  present  the  true  character  of  those  who  have influenced  their  generation  in  the  past,  or  fully  to  understand  the influences  shaping  and  controlling  their  conduct.
We  must  remember  that  in  those  days  the  daily  newspaper  did not  lay  before  the  j)eople  the  principal  transactions  of  the  whole world,  or  even  of  the  whole  Nation.  Local  questions  seemed  of more  vital  importance ;  local  contests  were  more  heated  ana enlisted  more  zeal  and  earnestness  from  the  partisans  on  either side.  Society  in  Illinois  was  still  in  an  unformed  state.  State and  national  questions  of  highTrnportance  were  still  unsettled  in a  period  of  turmoil  and  strife.     As  has  been  well  said,  ''In  all
*  See  "Tlie  Martyrdom  of  Lovejoy.  By  Henry  Tanner,  an  eye- v/itness. Chicago:   Fergus  Printing  Co.,  1881."
■•fM
.^
GOV.   JOSEPH    DU^■CAN.  49
periods  of  political  and  social  excitement,  human  nature  will manifest  itself  in  its  brightest  and  darkest  contrasts.  The  vices and  virtues  of  men  will  stand  out  in  bold  relief,  their  peculiarities of  character  displaying  themselves  with  remarkable  distinctness.'"' Although  the  Alton  riots  called  for  no  official  action  or  expres- sion of  opinion  on  the  part  of  Gov.  Duncan,  yet  he  felt  deeply the  disgrace  brought  upon  the  State  by  the  illegal  and  unlawful conduct  of  the  rioters,  although  at  the  same  time  deprecating,  at that  time,  as  unwise  the  course  pursued  by  Lovejoy  and  his friends.  Probably  no  clearer  statement  of  his  views  in  regard  to these  matters  can  be  found  than  those  contained  in  a  letter  writ- ten by  him  to  Rev.  Gideon  Blackburn  in  reply  to  one  from  the latter.     This  letter  is  as  follows:  ■  •
"Elm  Grove,  Jacksonville,  III.,  Dec.  12,  1837.
"Dear  Sir:  Your  fa^'or  of  the  nth  inst.  has  just  been  received, in  which  you  say  you  consider  it,  in  reference  to  the  Alton  mob and  the  death  of  the  Rev.  E.  P.  Lovejoy,  a  duty  to  inquire  of  me, 'as  executive  organ  of  the  State,  whether  the  s'')irit  of  mobs  must triumph  in  the  State?  Shall  the  blood  of  martyred  citizens remain  unexpiated?  Shall  the  property,  liberty,  and  life  of  our citizens  be  at  the  mercy  of  a  lawless  and  infuriated  mob?  Shall they  be  permitted  to  tread  down  all  law?'  etc.,  etc.,  and,  as  an individual,  you  invoke  my  intluence  as  the  head  of  the  State  as far  as  my  authority  may  go  'to  save  the  State  from  lawless  rebel- lion, blood-guiltiness,'  etc,  etc.
"The  outrage  at  Alton. must  be  disapproved  and  regretted  by all  good  citizens,  and  nothing  has  happened  within  our  peaceful State  that  has  filled  me  with  so  much  regret  as  that  event.  The restless  spirit  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  so  frequently developed  of  late  in  mobs,  has  made  a  deep  impression  on  my mind  and  is  evidence  that  all  is  nat. right  with  us.
"I  hold  that  no  power  in  this  country  is  superior  to  the  law, and  that  a  violation  of  it  with  impunity  is  impossible  without giving  a  serious  wound  to  the  liberties  of  the  people  and  impair- ing  the  strength   and  value  of  our  free  institutions ;    but   little,
T'  H  F*
LIBRARY
CMiCAGO
50  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  ^' .  -V  .,     -.
however,  you  must  know,  is  left  to  the  executive  branch  oi  . State  government  in  such  cases,  as  all  offenders  are  to  be  tried by  the  courts  and  juries  of  the  county,  which   is   the  only  safe tribunal  to  entrust  with  such  power,  and  I  doubt  not  they  will  do  I
their  duty  in  the  case  alluded  to.     Should  it  so  happen  that  the  |
executive  authority  shall  be  found  necessary  to  carry  into  effect a  sentence  of  the  court  in  this  or  any  case,  you  may  be  assured  it shall  be  executed  witli  all  the  energy  of  which  I  am  capable.
"While  thus  condemning  mobs  and  all  sorts  of  lawless  vio- lence, which  I  do  from  the  bottom  of  my  soul,  for  I  believe  they are  never  necessary  and  generally  judge  and  execute  their  judg- ments improperly,  to  say  nothing  of  the  violence  done  the  law and  constitution,  which  is  an  attack  on  the  rights  and  liberties  of every  citizen,  and  especially  the  poor  and  weak  part  of  them,  yet I  must  at  the  same  time  express  my  decided  disapprobation  of any  attempt,  while  the  public  mind  is  in  such  a  state  of  excite- ment, to  agitate  the  question  of  abolishing  slavery  in  this  country, for  it  can  never  be  broached  without  producing  violence  and discord,  whether  it  be  in  a  free  or  slave  State.  Therefore,  if  I have  read  my  Bible  right,  which  enjoins  peace  and  good-will  as the  first  Christian  duties,  it  must  be  wicked  and  sinful  to  agitate this  subject  in  the  manner  it  has  been  done  by  some  Abolitionists, especially  after  our  Southern  neighbors  have  repeatedly  and  ear- nestly appealed  to  us  not  to  meddle  with  it,  and  assured  us  their having  done  so  has  not  only  jeopardised  their  own  safety  and domestic  peace,  but  in  many  cases  has  caused  bloodshed  and rebellion,  which  has  compelled  them,  as  a  measure  of  prudence and  protection,  to  use  more  rigidity  and  severity  with  their  slaves. Thus  it  would  appear  that  the  slaves  and  master  suffer  alike  by  |
this   interference,  which  all   must  regard   as  an  infringement  on  |
their  political  rights.  i
"  In  addition  to  these  reasons  why  many  of  my  countrymen,  '
and  myself  among  the  rest,  think  tlie  discussion  of  the  cjuestion of  abolition  improper,  is  this:  because  it  is  believed  it  can  not  be effected,  except  by  consent  of  slave-holders,  without  violating  the  {
constitution   of   the   United   States   and  disregarding   the  sacred  ^
:^v--q.:
>Ul
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  .  5 1
obligations  of  the  compact  or  compromise  on  which  the  Union  of the  States  was  formed.  Many  also  there  are,  and  I  confess  I  am one  of  them,  who  beHeve  it  will  neither  be  consistent  with  sound policy  or  humanity  by  a  single  effort  to  free  all  the  slaves  in  the Union,  ignorant,  vicious,  and  degraded  as  they  are  known  to  be, and  then  turn  them  loose  upon  the  world  without  their  possessing the  least  qualification  for  civil  government,  or  knowledge  of  the value  of  properly,  or  the  use  of  liberty.  I  say  at  a  single  blow because  I  am  confident  that  such  an  event  can  never  take  place without  violence,  civil  war,  and  disunion,  so  long  as  the  Aboli- tionists use  the  means  they  are  using,  and  the  Southern  slave- holders continue  to  regard  all  their  efforts  and  arguments  as  in- cendiary, tmjust,  illegal,  and  ofticious.
"As  to  the  precise  character  of  this  affair  at  Alton,  I  do  not profess  to  be  informed.  All  agree,  however,  Mr.  Lovejoy's  death was  caused  by  a  lawless  mob,  and  whether  he  killed  the  first  man or  not,  they  were  aggressors  and  must  stand  condemned  in  tlie eyes  of  every  virtuous  and  peaceful  citizen.  Yet  I  am  bound  in candor  to  say  that  I  disapprove  of  Lovejoy'"s  determination  to persist  in  the  publication  of  sentiments  that  had  driven  him  from St.  l.ouis  and  twice  before  caused  the  destruction  of  his  own  press in  Alton,  and  which  had  scarcely  ever  been  broached  anywhere without  producing  the  deepest  feeling  and  often  very  great  excite- ment. I  can  not,  however,  from  my  knowledge  of  the  man> for  a  moment  doubt  the  purity  of  his  motives,  but  believe  his conduct  was  actuated  by  a  perverted  judgment,  and  was  n'.>t sanctioned  by  any  precepts  found  in  the  ^Vord  of  God,  or  the practice  of  our  Saviour,  or  any  of  his  disciples  while  on  earth.
"Yet,  sir,  1  beg  you  will  not  consider  that  I  am  one  of  those you  named,  who  believe  '  he  deserved  his  fate,'  or  that  I  hold those  that  destroyed  him  guiltless — far  otherwise  I  assure  you. Yet  I  do  think  his  zeal  and  intrepidity  were  worthy  of  a  better cause.
"  You  call  Mr.  Lovejoy  a  martyr,  and  I  perceive  that  he  is  so called  by  many  others,  and  the  good  city  of  Alton  and  the  State of  Illinois  are  anathematized  and  charged  with  blood-guiltiness.
52  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
etc.,  etc..  by  several  prints  from  abroad  that  have  met  my  eye since  the  fatal  aftair.  Now,  sir,  I  can  not  see  the  propriety  of  all this.  In  the  first  place,  I  consider  no  man  entitled  to  the  dis- tinction of  martyrdom  who  is  the  first  to  shed  blood  and  who dies  with  arms  in  his  hands,  and  whatever  may  be  said  or  done in  defence  of  the  liberty  of  personal  rights  and  the  freedom  of  the press,  which  should  be  held  sacred  in  our  country,  the  Bible  tells us  that  the  seed  of  discord  is  an  abomination  to  the  Lord.  I was  born  and  lived  more  than  half  my  life  in  a  slave  State,  long enough  to  be  convinced  that  the  degraded  condition  of  the  slave and  slavery  itself  is  a  great  moral  and  political  evil,  and  we should  earnestly  implore  God  to  open  \\\)  the  way  by  which  they may  be  enlightened  and  improved  in  their  condition,  and,  when prepared  to  enjoy  it,  and  it  can  be  done  without  violating  the constitution,  the  peace  and  union  of  the  States,  v/e  should  pray to  see  them  all  set  at  liberty.  Why  should  Mr.  Lovejoy  be  styled a  martyr?  Was  it  for  his  zeal  as  a  captain  in  the  service  of  our Saviour?  If  so,  we  should  have  seen  his  valor  shown,  not  in  the exercise  of  any  passion,  but  in  the  maintrining  that  humility, meekness,  and  dove-like  spirit  always  evinced  and  advised  by our  Redeemer.
"  It  would  be  profitable,  in  my  opinion,  for  those  who  approve of  building  up  God's  kingdom  in  the  world  of  violence  to  remem- ber the  rebuke  Christ  gave  one  of  his  disciples  who  made  a  for- ward movement  of  boldne.ss  in  his  service  by  using  his  sword upon  one  of  his  enemies  and  persecutors,  and  the  love,  forbear- ance, charity,  and  meekness  he  showed  in  healing  the  wound.
"  I  know  it  is  the  popular  doctrine  among  some  Christians  that their  own  conscience  is  to  be  the  rule  or  guide  of  their  actions, and  what  they  think  to  be  God's  service  must  be  done,  let  what may  follow.  Under  such  feelings  we  see  men  courting  the  dislike of  the  world,  and  even  provoking  their  vengeance.  Before  we saint  such  as  may  fall  victims  to  such  madness  it  may  be  well  to look  into  the  motives  whicli  probably  influenced  their  course — whether  it  may  not  have  s[)rung  from  spiritual  pride,  seeking distinction,  or   to  be   more  exalted  with    their  party.     There  is
'.:!
'■!u;J     j;.:^
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  53
something  in  true  holiness  which  exalteth  the  meek  and  humble Christian  above  him  that  taketh  a  city.       Very  truly  yours,
Joseph  Duncan."
Although  Gov.  Duncan,  in  leaving  the  state  of  his  birth  and the  home  of  his  childhood,  v\-as  very  largely  moved  by  a  desire  to avoid  what  he  considered  the  blighting  influence  of  slavery,*  had freed  his  own  slaves  and  had  joined  heartily  in  opposing  the introduction  of  slavery  into  Illinois,  yet  the  sentiments  of  the Abolitionists  were  exceedingly  distasteful  to  him.  Under  the term  Abolitionists  were  included,  not  those  who  thought  slavery a  moral  evil  or  an  economical  blunder,  but  those  who  insisted upon  the  abolition  of  slavery  throughout  the  Union  by  the  gov- ernment, and  discussed  the  question  with  that  end  in  view.  As may  be  gathered  from  the  foregoing  letter,  he  had  a  profound respect  for  law  and  lawful  methods.  He  reverenced  the  founders of  the  Nation,  and  looked  upon  the  constitution  of  the  United States  as  the  highest  manifestation  of  political  wisdom  known  to the  world,  and  regarded  its  authors  as  almost  inspired.  Hence, when  he  heard  the  ultra  Anti -slavery  men  or  Abolitionists  de- nounce the  constitution  and  declare  its  restrictions  were  not binding  upon  their  conscience  or  conduct,  he  felt  as  the  judge  or lawyer  feels  when  he  hears  the  law  reviled  for  its  delay,  and  the more  summary  methods  of  Judge  Lynch  advocated  as  the  remedy for  lawlessness.  He  sympathized  with  Henry  Clay  in  his  plans for  gradual  emancipation  and  believed  that  some  such  plan  should be  adopted  with  compensation  to  the  owners.  His  views  of Abolitionists  may  be  illustrated  by  the  following  letter,  found among  his  papers:
"Elm  Grove,  Oct.  lo,  1838. "To  Hon.  S.  D.  Lockwood,
President  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  Illinois  College:
Dear  Sir:  You  will  please  accept  my  resignation  as  one  of  the
trustees  of  Illinois  College,  and  to  prevent  all  misunderstanding
about  the  cause  of  my  resignation,  I  beg  leave  to  say  that  it  is
exclusively  on  account  of  a  conviction  on  my  mind  that  the  pres-
54  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
ident  and  mosl,  if  not  all,  the  professors  of  this  institution  are AboUtionists,  and  are  engaged  in  disseminating  those  danger- ous and  exciting  principles  in  the  State,  and  from  recent  evi- dences, I  ha\'e  reason  to  believe  hnvQ  infused  them  extensively  in the  minds  of  the  students.  Believing  that  it  is  wrong,  morally and  politically,  for  any  citizen  or  public  institution  to  teach  or advocate  doctrines  or  principles  in  this  country  which  can  not  be carried  into  practice  peaceably  without  violating  the  constitution of  the  United  States,  or  forcibly,  without  civil  war,  the  risk  of disunion,  and  the  destruction  of  our  free  and  happy  government, I  can  not  with  my  present  convictions  of  the  course  pursued  by its  faculty,  consistently  hold  any  connection  with  this  institution. With  great  respect,  your  obedient  servant,
Joseph  Duncan."
On  the  back  of  this  letter  he  writes:  "Did  not  deliver  this letter,  as  Judge  Lockwood  assures  me  that  I  was  mistaken  about abolition  principles  having  been  taught  in  the  college,  and  I agreed  not  to  resign  for  the  present,  but  stated  my  determination not  to  remain  connected  with  the  college  one  moment  after  the president  or  any  professor  shall  hereafter  preach,  teach,  or  lecture on  that  subject.  Joseph  Duncan."
P^ducation  and  temperance  were  two  subjects  in  which  Gov. Duncan  always  felt  a  deep  interest.  Some  of  his  public  acts  and utterances  relative  to  these  questions  I  have  already  read  to  you. During  the  whole  term  of  his  office  as  governor  he  annually  gave ($500)  one-half  of  his  salary  for  the  establishment  and  support  of an  Illinois  temperance  paper.  I  have  recently  seen  the  constitu- tion, list  of  charter  members,  and  subscription  list  of  an  early, perhajjs  the  first,  temperance  society  organized  in  Jacksonville, July  24,  1837.  The  largest  amount  subscribed  by  any  other member  was  three  dollars.  The  subscription  of  Mr.  Duncan  was twenty  dollars,  to  be  deducted  from  eight  hundred  dollars  already subscribed.
In  the  report  of  Nathaniel  Coffin  as  treasurer  of  Illinois  Col- lege, March  14,  1834,  I  find  an  acknowledgment  of  a  donation  of
/.    ,f  (    K  l.^-'Mf
A.:.'    lU     'Vi-:^0{
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  :     55
f  $500  from  Joseph  Duncan,  and  in  his  treasurer's  report  of  1836,
I  he  says:   "Gov.   Duncan   added  to  his  subscription   $10,000  in
I  land."'"      He  loved   IlHnois   College   and   served   many  years    as
I  trustee.
I  He  was  also  the  first  president  of  the  board  of  trustees  of  the
j  IlHnois  Institution  for  the  Education  of  Deaf  Mutes,  and  ]ield
I  that  honorable  position  until  the  day  of  his  death.     When  this
I  institution  was  chartered,  one  of  the  conditions  of  its  location  at
I  Jacksonville  was  that  the  citizens  of  Jacksonville  should  donate
;  the   neccessary  ground.      Gov.   Duncan   prepared  a   paper   and
\  headed  it  with  a  subscription  of  fifty  dollars,  and.  secured  from
others  enough  to  make  the  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars.  With six  hundred  and  eighty -six  dollars  of  the  fund  so  subscribed, about  six  acres,  the  present  site  of  the  institution,  was  purchased from  Judge  S.  D.  Lockwood  and  David  A.  Smith,  and  the  re- mainder of  the  funds  was  expended  in  making  improvements.
In  1828,  while  in  Washington,  D.C.,  serving  as  sole  represent- ative in  Congress  from  the  State  of  Illinois,  he  was  invited  by President  Adams  to  an  informal  dinner  with  a  few  friends,  among them  Mathew  St.  Clair  Clarke,  clerk  of  the  house  of  representa- tives, his  wife,  and  her  sister,  Miss  Elizabeth  Caldwell  Smith, daughters  of  James  R.  Smith,  a  retired  banker  and  shipping -mer- chant of  New-York  City.  Miss  Smith,  subsequently  Mrs.  Joseph Duncan,  kept  a  diary  for  many  years  and  from  them,  prepared for  the  perusal  of  her  children,  some  reminiscences  of  her  early life,  condensed  from  these,  are  quoted:
"Dined  at  President  John  Q.Adams'.     Was   introduced   by I  William  T.  Carroll  of  Carrollton,  to  Gen.  Joseph  Duncan,  mem-
?  ber  of  Congress  from  Illinois.     Henry  Clay  of  Kentucky,  who
\  sat  next  to  me  at  dinner,  whispered  to  me  that  *  Duncan  was  not
i  only  a  good-looking  fellow,  but  what  was  better,  he  was  a  good
I  son,  having  taken  care  of  his  widowed  mother  and  educated  his
'\       "     sister  and  two  younger  brothers.'"
I  To  show  the  style  of  dress  in   that  day,  I  will  quote  further.
She  says :  "  I  wore  to  the  dinner  a  crimson-silk  dress,  thread-lace ruffle  at  my  throat,  no  ornaments,  embroidered-silk  stockings,  and
56  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
satin  slippers  the  color  of  my  dress.  My  hair  I  wore  in  three puffs  on  the  top  of  my  head,  three  puffs  on  each  side;  a  high carved  tortoise-shell  comb."
The  acquaintance  thus  formed  proved  mutually  agreeable,  and after  a  short  acquaintance  and  shorter  engagement,  Joseph  Dun- can and  Elizabeth  C.  Smith  were  married,  May  13,  1828,  by Rev.  Ruben  Post.  Condensed  from  Mrs.  Duncan's  reminiscence is  a  brief  account  of  their  wedding  journey  and  early-married  life in  Jacksonville,  illustrating  the  condition  of  society  in  the  West at  that  time:  "'  ^[y  sister,  Mrs.  Clarke,  gave  us  an  elegant  wedding. She  entertained  with  ease  and  grace,  as  few  women  could.  Her house  was  well  arranged  for  such  entertainments.
"It  was  an  elegant  but  select  wedding.  Many  army-and-navy friends  of  Mr.  Duncan  were  present.  I  had  three  bridesmaids; they  were  Miss  Mary  B.  Smith  of  New  York,  Cornelia  Barber, whose  father  was  secretary  of  war,  Isabella  Smith,  granddaughter of  Mrs.  Isabella  Graham.  The  groomsmen  were  Wm.  T.  Carroll, Lieut.  Vinton,  U.S.A.,  and  William  Blake  from  Indiana.
"We  left  for  Illinois  in  two  weeks.  We  crossed  the  mountains in  a  stage  to  Wheeling,  Va.,  there  took  a  steamboat  to  Cairo, another  to  St.  Louis,  in  company  with  James  K.  Polk,  a  very commonplace  man.  At  St.  Louis  we  spent  a  week,  by  previous invitation,  with  Mrs.  Gen.  Ashley;  met  Mr.  and  Mrs.  OTallon,. Mr.  and  Mrs.  Allen,  and  Dr.  Farrar,  old  friends  of  Mr.  Duncan's. There  was  not  a  Protestant  church  in  the  city.  Rev.  Salmon Giddings,  a  graduate  of  Williams  College,  afterward  Presbyterian minister  in  Quincy,  preached  in  a  parlor.  It  went  by  that  name, although  it  had  a  bed  in  it.  This  seemed  a  strange  fashion,  but they  considered  a  bed  a  very  ornamental  as  well  as  essential piece  of  furniture,  with  its  high  posts,  often  of  carved  mahogany, which  supported  the  tester  hung  with  curtains  of  lace  or  dimity or  chintz,  according  to  the  wealth  of  the  family,  while  a  valance of  the  same  material  hid  the  three -step  ladder  which  was  regu- larly drawn  out  at  night  to  enable  one  to  mount  up  into  it.  But once  you  were  in,  you  sank  out  of  sight,  and  in  the  soft  feather- bed became  oblivious   to  the  sound  of  voices  which  could  be
■  [      J)iii.n  n-r
GOV.    JOSEPH    DU.NXAN.  5/
heard  through  the  slender  partition  between  you  and  your  neigh- bor, and  you  considered  yourself  fortunate  if  you  had  more  than a  curtain  between  you.
'•St.  Louis  was  settled  by  the  French.  The  streets  were  nar- row and  dirty  and  the  weatlier  at  that  season  so  warm  we  were glad  to  take  the  little  steamboat  for  Kaskaskia,  where  Mr.  Dun- can's mother,  ^^Irs.  Capt.  Benj.  Moore,  met  us;  also  his  sister, Mrs.  Wm.  Linn,  who  lived  at  Fountain  Bluft',  and  had  come  up on  horseback  with  a  colored  servant.  .As  we  were  devoted  to horseback  riding,  we  took  the  horses  and  let  her  return  by  boat. When  we  arrived  at  the  Bluft's  at  sunset,  Mr.  Duncan  left  me  at the  door  and  hurried  down  to  the  river,  a  mile  or  more  distant, expecting  to  find  his  sister  waiting,  but  the  boat  was  detained  till ten  o'clock.  When  it  grew  dark  I  called  for  a  light.  The  old negro  who  answered  said:  'When  missus  comes  she  is  to  bring some  tallow,  aud  then  I  will  soon  dip  a  candle.'  I  begged  him to  do  something.  I  could  not  stay  alone  in  the  dark,  so  he  built a  big  fire  on  the  hearth.  From  that  day,  or  night,  I  was  never caught  without  a  candle  and  matches,  and,  although  a  trouble- some thing  to  always  think  of,  it  once  saved  the  lives  of  a  whole party.  We  were  crossing  the  mountains  (which,  by  the  way,  I did  eight  times  by  stage  or  private  carriage).  The  driver  got  off the  road,  when  he  called  out  'he  wished  that  little  nervous  wo- man who  he  had  scolded  for  carrying  a  lighted  candle  would hand  it  out  that  he  might  see  where  he  was.'  When  I  did  so  he found  the  front  wheel  within  an  inch  of  a  frightful  precipice. Another  step  of  the  horses  would  have  plunged  us  hundreds  of feet  below.
"Late  in  July,  1828,  we  turned  our  faces  eastward.  Col.  Thos. S.  Mather  ajid  his  wife  took  us  in  their  carriage  to  Carlyle,  where they  were  going  to  visit.  From  Carlyle  we  took  a  stage  to  Van- dalia,  and  from  there  we  came  to  Jacksonville  and  spent  a  few days.  After  I  had  rested  and  slipped  into  a  white-mull  dress,  as I  was  standing  on  the  door-steps,  an  old  man  said  to  me:  'Sis, what  brought  you  to  this  rough  country?'  f  replied:  '  I  followed my  husband.'     '  Men  change  their  place  of  abode  from  ambition
M.  yjo'
58  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
and  interest,  women  from  attection.'  They  all  seemed  surprised, for  they  had  supposed  the  girlish  figure  before  them  was  Mr. Duncan's  daughter.  He  was  fourteen  years  older,  tliough  he never  looked  old,  for  he  had  a  fine  complexion  and  a  mouth  full of  sound  white  teeth.  He  had  brown  eyes  and  hair  which  in- clined to  curl.  He  was  tall,  had  broad  shoulders,  and  a  com- manding person.  As  Hon.  John  Todd  Stuart  remarked,  'A man  you  would  call  handsome.'  He  had  dimples  in  each  cheek, which,  as  he  did  not  wear  a  beard,  added  much  to  the  sweet  ex- pression of  his  mouth  and  made  his  smile  a  very  winning  one.
"  From  Jacksonville  we  took  a  stage  through  this  State  and Indiana  over  a  rough  corduroy  road,  through  Michigan  and  Ohio to  Cleveland.  The  lake  was  so  rough  and  the  boat  so  poor  we hired  a  wagon  and  coasted  the  lake  to  Buffalo:  from  there  in  a stage  to  Albany,  and  from  there  to  New  York  by  boat,  and  from New  York  to  AVashington,  D.C.,  by  stage.  We  were  weeks  in reaching  home.  I  was  delighted  to  get  back  to  civilization.  We met  while  in  the  West  as  refined,  well-educated  people  as  we would  meet  in  any  society  in  the  world,  but  the  country  was  so very  rough  and  the  uneducated  people  were  so  coarse  and  unre- fined to  one  who  judged  people  by  their  dress  and  their  manner. It  took  me  years  to  learn  to  love  and  appreciate  them  as  I  did afterward  when  living  among  them.  Many  of  the  people  I  met on  my  journeys  were  very  rude  and  ignorant,  turning  my  trunks inside  out,  trying  on  my  clothes,  and  cutting  patterns  of  them, often  injuring  them  past  use."
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  remained  in  Washington,  D.  C,  until Aug.  I,  1830,  when  they  returned  to  Jacksonville.  Quoting  again from  Mrs.  Duncan's  reminiscences:  "We  drove  up  to  the  house of  John  Deeper,  southeast  of  town.  In  two  days  we  came  into town.  Murray  McConnel,  Esq.,  had  said  we  could  sleep  in  his office  and  take  our  meals  at  the  inn.  The  next  day,  court  being in  session,  the  ofiice  was  filled  with  men  before  I  was  up.  That day  we  moved  to  Mathew  Stacy's  attic,  as  there  was  no  room  in the  inn.  The  ceiling  was  so  low  I  could  not  stand  up  in  it  to dress.     I  am  only  four  feet  five  inches  in  height,  so  one  can  im-
Tif    lA.i.   ':k
GOV.   JOSEril   DUNXAN.  59
agine  what  Mr.  Duncan,  m-'.io  is  six  feet  tall,  could  do  in  such  a room.  After  one  day  here,  and  thanking  Mr.  Stacy,  whose  kind- ness we  never  forgot,  we  moved  three  miles  east  of  town  to  Mr. James  Kerr's.  Four  weeks  from  the  day  we  arrived  'here,  Mr. Duncan  had  our  cottage  ready  for  us.  It  stood  at  the  edge  of the  grove,  just  west  of  the  present  home,  surrounded  by  elm trees,  from  v.'bich  we  gave  it  the  name  of  '  Elm  Grove.'  This cottage  was  the  first  frame-house  in  the  village.  Though  rude  in exterior,  it  often  afforded  shelter  to  the  weary  traveler.  It  was in  truth  'wedded  love's  first  home.'
"  The  house  had  three  rooms  and  a  square  entry  with  a  win- dow in  it.  Each  room  had  a  large  open  fireplace,  which  added much  to  the  cheeriness  of  the  house.  Our  table  never  lacked for  wild  game.  Mr.  Duncan  often  went  out  before  breakfast  and brought  in  enough  to  last  for  several  days.  Game  was  not  only plenty,  but  the  wild -cats  and  the  wolves  prowled  through  the woods.  Cake,  iced  and  set  out  back  of  the  house,  more  than once  had  the  icing  licked  off  by  the  wolves,  though  they  did  not eat  the  cake.  The  cry  of  the  wild- cat  so  resembles  that  of  a child  that  more  than  once  my  husband  rose  and  listened  in  tlie night,  fearing  some  one  was  in  distress.
"Indians  were  frequent  visitors  as  they  passed  through  the country  from  one  point  to  another.  A  few  trinkets  and  some food  would  generally  satisfy  them,  though  sometimes  they  were troublesome,  coming  just  as  a  meal  was  prepared,  when  they would  eat  it  all.
"The  country  was  wild.  We  never  rode  out  without  seeing snakes,  most  of  them  harmless.  There  was  a  great  number  of nuts  and  wild  fruit  in  the  grove  north  of  our  cottage,  among  them the  wild  crab-apple,  black  and  red  haws,  wild  cherry  and  mul- berry, gooseberry,  strawberry,  pawpaw,  and  wild  grape.  I'here were  also  hickory  trees,  walnut  trees,  and  hazel-nuts.  We  had  a fine  bed  of  strawberries  which  we  transi)lanted  from  the  woods and  which,  by  cultivation,  grew  very  large.  The  woods  in  the spring,  with  the  red  bud  and  apple-blossoms,  were  like  fairyland, and  in  the  fall  the  trees  hung  with  the  bitter-sweet  and  wild-grape vines  loaded  with  fruit.
i;.iii«>-i.fli
r.  1-
•;fU    ifliL/Oi;:;    >>>*i';v'i    ;.;.'[
6o  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
"The  wild  flowers  were  abundant,  from  the  blue-and-yellow violet,  spring  beauty,  and  blue  bells  to  the  rich  fall  flowers  wliicli waved  in  the  winds  across  the  praires  like  gay  plumes  of  yellow, crimson,  and  blue.  The  streams  around  here  were  muddy  most of  the  year,  but  Nature,  as  if  ashamed  of  such  dirty  watei,  bor- dered them  with  flags  and  liilies  of  the  richest  tints,  white,  yellow, purple,  dark -blue,  and  crimson.  The  prairie -grass  was  so  tall that  often  in  crossing  a  prairie  you  could  not  discover  you  were going  to  meet  any  one  until  they  were  right  upon  you.  In  travel- ing with  Mr.  Duncan  in  early  times,  more  than  once  when  he discovered  fire  in  the  distance,  he  burned  a  large  place  around the  carriage,  for  fear  the  fire  would  sweep  over  us  and  we  be burned."
In  Joseph  lOuncan's  diary  of  August,  1830,  he  says:  "In  Jack- sonville attended  church ;  gave  a  donation  to  a  Presbyterian church  which  was  started  March  15,  1830,  by  Rev.  J.  M.  Ellis." I  have  here  the  original  subscription  list,  and  for  members  of  that church  who  are  present  it  may  not  be  without  interest  to  them  to know  that  the  building -committee  were  John  P.  Wilkinson^ W.  C.  Posey,  S.  D.  I>ockwood,  John  Leeper,  James  Kerr,  and Bedford  Prown.  The  ground  was  donated  by  Dennis  Rockwell, Esq.  Some  paid  their  subscriptions  in  material  and  labor,  or both.  In  that  way  John  Leeper  subscribed  seventy-five  dollars; Thomas  Prentiss,  twenty  dollars;  Bedford  Brown,  thirty  dollars; Edwin  A.  Mears,  twenty  dollars;  James  Kerr,  forty  dollars;  Elliot Stevenson,  ten  dollars;  J.  Clark,  five  dollars  or  labor;  the  others paid  cash.  In  all,  three  hundred  dollars  was  raised,  a  good  be- ginning, as  these  people  all  had  to  build  homes  for  their  families.
I  quote  again  from  Mrs.  Duncan's  reminiscences:  "In  1S33. came  back  to  Jacksonville  again,  with  my  little  boy  St.  Clair  and his  nurse,  Maria;  Mary  with  Milly,  her  nurse.  This  was  the summer  of  the  cholera  here.  St_.  Clair  had  it.  Dr.  Reed  car- ried him  through  it,  Mr.  Duncan  acting  as  nurse,  administering every  dose  of  medicine  with  his  own  hands,  and  did  not  leave him  for  a  moment  until  he  was  better.  Dr.  Reed  was  a  kind physician  and  a  good -man.     Mrs.  Ellis,  Mrs.  Conn's  half-sister,
^    .p  ;y!    ?'t»n:r:i_    ,-i-rf;rvl
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  6 1
and    her   two  children  died  of  cholera   in  one  week,  while   her I  husband,   Rev.  J.  M.  Ellis  was   from   home.     Mr.   Ellis  was  our
I  pastor.     He  lived  in  a  log-cabin  on  West-State  Street,  west  of  his
I  church,  which  stood  on  the  northwest  corner  of  Church  Street;
ihad  been  removed  there  from  down  town,  and  was  a  frame  build- ing, three  windows  on  the  east  and  west  of  it,  two  south  doors i  witi-.  three  elevated  seats  between  them  for  the  choir,  led  by  Mr.
I  -  Carlton  Perry,  and  composed  of  Miss  E.  Wolcott,  afterward  Mrs. Perry;  her  sister  Hannah,  afterward  Rev.  Mrs.  Wm.  Kirby;  Mrs. John  P.  Wilkinson ;  Mrs.  Judge  S.  D.  Lockwood ;  and  Julia Conn,
"In  Ma)',  1833,  we  entertained  T.  M.  Post,  nephew  of  my beloved  pastor  in  \\'ashington.  Rev.  Reuben  Post,  the  same  that united  us  in  marriage,  the  same  that  found  me  a  girl  very  fond of  dancing  and  gay  society,  and  that  led  me  to  give  it  all  up  and be  a  Christian,  it  being  one  of  the  requirements  of  the  Presby- terian church,  though  I  felt  sure,  in  regard  to  simple  dancing,  my father's  views  on  that  subject  were  correct,  for  in  my  childhood's I  home  after  we  had  our  dance,  at  ten  o'clock  the  piano  was  closed,
I  the  servants  called  in,  the  family  Bible  opened,  and,  although  we
*  used  Rouse's  version  of  the  Psalms,  singing  of  the  dolorous  music
never  affected  uni)leasantly  our  dreams,  after  kissing  our  parents good-night  we  retired  refreshed  in  body  and  mind.
"  Mr.  T.  M.  Post  came  to  us  the  day  Mr.  Duncan  had  a  barn- raising.     About  twelve  or  fifteen  men  were  to  have  their  dinner. I  Mr.  Duncan  constructed  a  table  out  of  plank  nailed  to  the  trees
I  back  in  the  grove  and  the  men  stood  around  it.      I  sat  on  a  chair
I  placed  on  a  store  box,  to  bring  me  up  on  a  level  with  the  rest  of
i  them.     Maria  was  a  good   cook,  and   gave  them  a  good   meal.
I  Mr.  Post  enjoyed  our  little  home  after  the  long  journey  from  the
I  P^ast.     He  spoke  of  waking  in  the  night  and*  passing  his  hands
I  over  the  linen  pillow-cases  and  she^e^^ts  and  feeling  as  if  he  was  in
f  heaven.
^  "  1830  was  the  winter  of  the  deep  snow.     Mr.  Duncan  was  in
I  Congress.     His   mother   staid  with   me  in  my  cottage.     Eunice
I  Conn,  then  but  a  child,  came  home  with   me  the  night  before.
I
*
i'i;:v/r
,;  ■.  riv  n!;>:;f.  •  >
62  GOV.   JOSEPH    DU^XAN.
She  cried  in  the  morning  when  she  found  the  snow  up  above  the window-sills,  fearing  she  would  be  buried  alive.     There  came  a •  heavy  sleet-storm,  forming  a  crust,  so  that   for   several  days  we rode  over  the  worm  fences  from  one  house  to  another.
"  In  the  fall,  we  returned  to  Washington,  Mr.  Duncan  in  Con- gress. In  1S34,  Mr.  Duncan  was  elected  governor  of  Illinois. We  came  West  to  remain.  He  had  a  close-carriage  "fitted  up with  a  spring -bed,  and  I  was  brought  out  West  on  it.  I  was  in very  delicate  health.  Another  carriage  followed  with  my  three children,  St.  Clair,  Mary,  and  Nannie,  Cousin  Ann  Caldwell  — daughter  of  PZlias  Boudinot  Caldwell,  clerk  of  the  supreme  court, Washington,  D.C. — an  English  nurse,  and  John  McClusky  for driver.  '^  '^  1S35,  moved  into  the  house.  It  has  been  over a  year  being  built.  The  plan  was  drawn  from  Mrs.  M.  St.  C. Clarke's  house,  only  made  smaller.
"October,  1835,  Joseph  Duncan,  Jr.,  was  born;  baptized  Nov. 5»  1^35^  gave  him  his  fathers  name.  His  father  united  with the  First  Presbyterian  church  the  same  day.
"June,  1837,  we  entertained  Daniel  Webster,  his  wife,  and niece.  Mr.  Duncan  gave  him  a  barbecue  down  in  the  grove, northwest  of  the  house;  roasted  a  steer  whole.  [The  old  tree under  which  he  stood  still  stands  in  the  centre  of  Lafayette  Ave- nue and  Croghan  Street,  and  should  be  protected  by  our  city fathers  by  an  iron  railing].  Webster  made  a  most  eloquent speech,  as  was  his  wont.  He  took  the  people  by  storm.  Cheer after  cheer  echoed  and  reechoed  through  the  grove.  Having  a httle  baby  girl  three  weeks  old,  I  did  not  venture  on  the  ground. We  had  a  delightful  evening.  T.  M.  Post  and  wife,  Judge  and Mrs.  S.  D.  Lockwood,  their  lovely  niece.  Miss  Mary  Nash  [now wife  of  Hon.  John  Todd  Stuart  of  Springfield],  were  present,  and many  others.  We  entertained  so  much  company  that  the  colored cook  often  said:  '  Massa  Joe,  all  this  here  house  lacks  of  being  a hotel  is  the  hanging  out  dc  sign.'  "
•  Mr.  Duncan,  by  his  energy  and  thrift,  had  already,  at  the  date of  his  marriage,  added  largely  to  his  moderate  patrimony,  but  his wife  brought  to  him  what  was  then  considered  a  large  fortune.
•)nfi<l
.  -.^   I       .'.I    II"
I..   -mJ
«
^K^-A^  S!?^?-^i*^f>'^^|?l?-;i?!^'|^'^'^S4^^^^^^^
m^te  ills'
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  63
Mrs.  Duncan'5  estate  was  valued  at  one  hundred  and  fifty  thou- sand dollars.  By  the  will  of  her  father,  one -thud  of  her  estate only  was  to  be  paid  to  her  on  attaining  her  majority;  the  remain- ing two-thirds  vras  to  be  invested  for  her  during  her  hfe  and  paid to  her  children  when  the  youngest  should  become  twenty -one. The  whole  estate  was  placed  by  the  executors  in  the  hands  ot Gov.  Duncan,  and  invested  by  him  with  his  own  money  in  real estate  in  Chicago,  Sandusky,  Michigan  City,  Jacksonville,  and lands  throughout  Central   Illinois.
As  he  had  received  two -thirds  of  the  estate  to  be  invested  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  will  of  her  father,  James R.  Smith,  Mr.  Duncan  conveyed  to  Rev.  J.  M.  Sturtevant,  as trustee  for  his  wife  and  children,  property  in  and  near  Jackson- ville, III,  which  had  cost  about  seventy  thousand  dollars,  and upon  which  he  then  expected  to  expend  the  remaining  thirty thousand  dollars  of  the  fund  to  be  so  invested.  Mrs.  Duncan, an  invalid,  with  a  large  family  of  small  children,  accustomed  to exercise  a  liberal  hospitaHty,  found  her  income  after  his  death too  small  for  her  support  and  the  education  of  her  children,  and much  of  the  trust  property  had  greatly  depreciated  in  value  and was  sold  at  a  great  sacrifice  under  decrees  of  court  before  the period  fixed  for  the  distribution  of  the  property  had  arrived. Among  the  parcels  sold  was  the  Park  House,  then  called  the Mansion  House,  the  two  stores  west  of  it,  and  the  property  at the  northwest  corner  of  the  square,  etc.
As  has  been  already  mentioned,  Mr.  Duncan's  sister  married William  Linn,  who  held  the  office  of  receiver  of  the  land-office, and  who  proved  a  defaulter.  Mr.  Duncan  was  one  of  his  bonds- men, and  when  suit  was  instituted  by  the  United  States,  proved to  be  the  only  solvent  one.  An  investigation  of  the  affairs  of his  office  showed  tliat  Mr.  Linn  was  already  largely  in  arrears  to the  government  at  the  date  of  his  reappointment  and  the  signing of  his  second  bond  by  Mr.  Duncan.  There  were  not  wanting those  that  said  that  his  reappomtment  under  such  circumstances was  a  scheme  of  the  Jackson  men  to  break  down  Duncan,  who they  knew  would  remain  surety  on  the  bond  of  his  brother-in-law.
64  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
That  such  was  the  hope  and  expectation  of  the  Democratic leaders  in  Washington  was  once  admitted  to  the  writer  by  the Hon.  Murray  McConnel.
On  June  8,  1841,  three  judgments  were  rendered  in  the  district court  of  the  United  States  against  Joseph  Duncan  and  other sureties  on  the  bond  of  Linn,  aggregating  the  sum  of  $76,714.53. Under  executions  issued  upon  these  judgments,  all  of  Gov. Duncan's  fortune  and  that  of  his  wife,  except  the  property  con- veyed to  Dr.  Sturtevant  as  trustee,  were  swept  away,  and  yet  less than  thirty-five  tl^iousand  dollars  was  realized  to  the  government and  credited  on  the  judgment.  Thousands  of  acres  of  the  best and  most  carefully -selected  lands  in  Illinois  were  sold  at  ten cents  an  acre ;  some  of  the  handsomest  residence  property  in Jacksonville  at  three  and  four  dollars  a  lot,  and  nearly  forty  acres comprising  Duncan's  Addition  to  Chicago,  now  in  the  heart  of the  city,  were  sold  at  from  five  to  seven  dollars  a  lot.  Gov. Duncan's  death  came  so  soon  after  the  rendition  of  the  judg- ments, Jan.  15,  1844,  that  he  was  unable  to  do  anything  to  avert the  severity  of  the  blow.
Hon.  William  Thomas,  who  was  appointed  administrator  of  the estate,  did  all  in  his  power  to  effect  a  compromise  with  the  ad- ministration, and  if  his  wise  counsels  had  been  followed  every dollar  of  the  judgment  would  have  been  paid  and  a  handsome estate  left  untouched.  The  harsh  severity  with  which  the  collec- tion of  these  judgments  was  pushed  brought  inconvenience  if  not suflfering,  upon  many  others..
Gov.  Duncan,  engaged  in  carrying  on  a  large  business,  was necessarily  more  or  less  in  debt  to  others,  and  as  the  government always  takes  precedence  over  other  creditors,  their  claims  were left  wholly  unpaid,  to  the  great  grief  and  mortification  of  ^Irs. Duncan.
As  has  been  already  mentioned  in  Mrs.  Duncan's  reminiscences, Mr.  Duncan  united  with  the  Presbyterian  church,  Nov.  5,  1835. The  Rev.  Mr.  Dashell  was  then  pastor  of  the  church.  In  1S36, a  difficulty  arose  between  Mr.  Dasltell  and  some  of  the  members of  this  church,  which  resulted  in  Mr.  Dashell's  resignation  of  the
y„,u  ^   ■:U
t:..    t>'!r.    {ii/ni
,:   -iiiJiiV.
..il
GOV.    JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  •  65
pastorate  and  removal  from  Jacksonville,  ^h.  Dimcan  had  be- come very  warmly  attached  to  his  pastor,  and  was  deeply  grieved at  the  quarrel  v/hich  resulted  in  his  removal,  and  an  effort  was made  by  him,  and  others  who  sympathized  with  him,  to  organize another  Presbyterian  church,  but  was  unsuccessful.  Mr.  Duncan then  took  his  letter,  ^March  21,  1837,  ^^^  united  with  the  Presby- terian church  in  Pisgah,  of  which  the  Rev.  a\Ir.  James  Gallagher was  pastor,  and  continued  a  member  of  it  until  his  death.
]Mr.  Duncan's  religious  character  was  expressed  rather  by  his acts  than  his  words.  He  was  rather  reticent  in  relation  to  his I  religious  experience.  It  seemed  too  deep  and  sacred  to  be  talked I  about.  The  following  letter,  however,  written  to  his  wife  while I  they  were  seeking  to  organize  a  new  church,  will  give  some  idea of  his  standard  of  Christianitv:
"Vandalia,  III.,  Jan.  22,  1837.
"Dear  Elizabeth:  I  was  truly  disappointed  that  Judge  Lock- wood  came  in  the  stage  last  night  without  St.  Clair.  I  received )'our  letter.  I  most  sincerely  regret  that  there  exists  so  much difficulty  in  organizing  the  new  church,  but  it  all  weighs  not  a I  feather  with  me.  I  believe  it  is  right.  It  certainly  agrees  with I       my  feelings,  and  I  feel  determined  to  go  forward.     As  to  the  age
3  of  Mr.  Ensley  Goudy,  it  makes  no  difference.  I  can  see  no  such I  objections  made  in  the  Scriptures,  and  as  to  the  numbers  with I  which  we  begin — it  is  less  than  no  objection.  God  has  promised I  where  two  or  three  gather  together  in  His  name  he  will  be  in  the ';  midst  of  them.  I  have  always  thought  there  were  too  many t  Christians  influenced  by  fashion,  so  if  we  have  but  few,  and  those ]  unpretending  Christians,  to  begin  our  church  we  may  feel  our I       weakness  and  thereby  be  taught  humility.     I  assure  you  I  would
4  prefer  organizing  our  church  with  Mr.  Goudy  as  the  only  elder I  than  with  ten  rich  influential  men  to  fill  such  offices.  Mr.  Bergen ^  has  but  one  elder,  I  understand,  and  he  is  a  young  man — for  my I  part  I  like  small  beginnings,  if  our  hearts  are  right,  all  will  be i  well  with  us.  It  is  getting  dark,  so  I  must  stop  writing.  \Ve I      had  a  delightful  sermon  todav  from  a  Methodist.     It  was  a  truly
i
'•
66  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
good  sermon.     Write  me  by  every  mail.     I  received  a  letter  from you  last  night,  so  I  have  nothing  to  complain  of.
"  May  God  bless  and  preserve  you  all  is  the  prayer  of  your affectionate  husband.     Love  to  all.  Joseph  Duncan."
Gov.  Duncan  died  at  his  home  in  Jacksonville,  Jan.  15,  1844^ after  a  short  but  painful  sickness,  leaving  a  widow,  thirty-live  years of  age,  and  seven  children,  but  three  of  whom  now  survive,  Mary L.,  wife  of  Charles  E.  Putnam  of  Davenport,  la.,  Joseph  Duncan of  Chicago,  and  the  writer.
To  Hon.  John  T.  Stuart  of  Springfield,  111.,  and  other  of  father's friends,  I  am  much  indebted  for  their  kind  response  to  letters WTitten  them.
Rev.  Dr.  PMward  Beecher  of  Brooklyn,  N.Y.,  \vrites :  "  My reminiscences  of  your  father  are  all  of  the  most  pleasant  kind.  I was  associated  with  him  as  one  of  the  trustees  of  Illinois  College for  fourteen  years,  and  for  that  I  regarded  with  deep  interest  his life  and  influence  as  a  statesman,  and  in  all  the  relations  of  social life  my  feelings  toward  him  were  those  of  absolute  confidence in  his  integrity  and  in  his  wisdom  as  a  counsellor  in  every  good work,  as  well  as  in  his  energy  as  a  worker  in  the  great  cause  of education  in  all  its  departments.  My  intercourse  with  him  and with  your  mother  in  social  life  was  always  delightful.  There  was the  refinement  and  inteUigence  of  sincere  Christian  fellowship  that at  once  inspired  confidence  and  called  out  reciprocal  aftection."
I  will  close  this  rambling  sketch  with  a  letter  from  Dr.  Truman M.  Tost  of  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  written  in  reply  to  a  request  for  some reminiscences  of  my  father.     He  says  :
"Dear  Friend:  I  first  met  your  father  in  Washington,  D.C., in  the  winter  of  1832-3.  He  was  then  a  member  of  Congress from  the  State  of  Illinois,  in  about  middle  life,  a  fine  specimen  of physical  manhood,  with  fraime  massive,  muscular,  and  finely  pro- portioned, with  an  eye  dark  and  expressive,  a  mein,  in  general. resolute,  kindly,  genial,  brave,  noble — withal  quite  a  handsome man.  Illinois,  though  admitted  into  the  Union  some  fourteen years  previously,  was  yet,  with  the  comparatively  slow  progress
1.  Tl  ]:.;;  4  n  b
GOV.  JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  -.  6/
of  immigration  and  settlement  in  those  times,  still  a  new  State. Only  the  year  before,  it  had  been  the  seat  of  an  Indian  war.
"  Coming  thus  from  a  new  State  of  vast  and  magnificent  possi- bilities  and  aspirations,  he  moreover  attracted  marked  attention as  a  hero  of  the  defence  of  Fort  Stephenson  in  1813,  for  which he  had  been  publicly  honored  in  a  memorial  of  his  gallantry  Avith the  presentation  of  a  sword  by  Congress.     [Feb.  13,  1834].
"  I  was  introduced  to  him,  and  also  to  your  mother,  by  my uncle,  the  Kev.  Reuben  Post  of  Washington  City,  who,  from  his residence  as  pastor  of,  I  think,  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  in that  city,  and  his  position  as  chaplain  in  Congress,  had  extensive opportunity  for  acquaintance  with  its  members.  Your  mother,  a young  married  lady,  recently  from  New -York  City,  from  a  family of  wealth,  culture,  and  social  position,  herself  cultivated,  amiable, devotedly  pious,  and  of  fine  personal  attractions,  was,  I  think, spending  the  winter  with  him  in  Washington,  was  a  member  of rny  uncle's  church,  a^id  much  esteemed  and  admired  by  him.  It is  my  impression  that  it  was  through  her  primarily  that  he  first became  especially  acquainted  with  your  father.
"  I  was  then  just  ready  to  enter  life  with  the  profession  of  law, but  with  'the  world  all  before  me  where  to  choose.'  I  was  ex- ceedingly perplexed  in  determining  the  selection  of  my  future home.  The  West  attracted  me  by  its  newness,  its  young  life, and  its  magnificent  promise.  With  the  mode  of  travel  and  intel- ligence then  possesed,  Illinois  was  farther  off  than  India  and China  are  now,  and  almost  as  strange  to  us  of  the  iiortheast  At- lantic border  as  the  centre  of  the  Dark  Continent  is  at  present. In  vague  rumor  and  legend  of  its  natural  richness  and  beauty  it was  a  sort  of  wonderland,  while  its  mystery  of  a  future  of  vast possibilities  made  it,  to  the  imagination  of  a  young  man,  a  dream- land of  magnificent  idealization  and  aspiration.
"The  intluence  and  persuasion  of-iriends  meantime,  and  the attractions  of  a  high  type  of  social  culture  and  advantageous  in- ducements offered  me  by  Senator  Rivers  of  Virginia,  drew  me strongly  toward  Richmond,  Va.  But  through  the  influence  and representations   of  your  father,  I  was   induced   to   determine   I
.\'>
.1  !!•.•/    V
H'(f,':    1    ■.-':
:l  •)•■    ji;ii;   (31
>:VA
i^i'-:    i.
6S  GOV.   JOSE n I    DUNCAN.  ^>-)
would  visit  him  in  Illinois  before  permanently  settling  elsewhere. In  view  of  this  fact,  I  have  ever  regarded  your  father  as  one through  whose  intiuence  Providence  has  permanently  touched  tlie history  of  my  life,  turning  its  course  toward  a  new  world  and  fix- ing its  field  in  the  then  far  West.
''In  pursuance  of  this  plan,  in  May,  1833,  I  visited  Jackson- ville, III.,  then  an  extreme  out-settlement  toward  the  Northwest. In  this  region  I  found  your  father  at  his  home,  not  far  from  where the  family  residence  now  stands,  about  one  mile  from  the  town, which  was  then  a  crov.ded  village  of  log-cabins.  His  home,  a small  initial  pioneer  structure,  quite  shanty-like  compared  witli those  which  afterward  arose  in  its  place.  It  was  the  only  attempt at  a  wooden  frame-dwelling  I  can  now  recollect  in  that  vicinity.
"I  remember  as  I  approached  it  I  was  much  struck  with  the contrast  it  presented  to  your  mother's  former  luxurious  surround- ings and  delicate  culture,  and  to  your  father's  reputation  and reality  of  proprietorship  of  large  wealth;  and  I  saw  I  was  looking upon  the  beginning  of  a  new  world.
"  I  found  your  father  and  mother  under  the  shade  of  large trees  in  front  of  their  house,  surrounded  by  a  company,  mainly  of crude,  rough,  stalwart  men  with  manner,  garb,  and  speech  of plain  and  quite  primitive  type,  with  bronzed,  strongly -marked, shrewd  faces,  the  backwoodsmen,  political  leaders  of  the  newly- emerging  commonwealth.  It  was  near  the  dinner  hour,  and rough  tables  were  set  in  the  shadow  of  the  lofty  trees.  Then,  as we  gatJiered  around  them,  I  shall  never  forget  how  your  mother, a  little,  delicate,  brave  woman,  solitary  amid  that  company  ot men,  arose  and,  as  your  father  was  not  at  that  time  a  communi- xant  in  the  church,  offered  thanks  and  asked  the  divine  blessin-^ ^n  our  repast.  The  scene  and  the  incident  give  us  a  glim^jsc into  a  share  of  the  life  of  those  times,  and  also  characteristic  nf the  Christian  heroism  of  your- gentle,  sweet,  true-hearted  mother. I  never  forgot  it.  It  affected  me  permanently  in  various  wa\^, .besides  impressing  me  ever  with  a  high  admiration  for  her  Chii^ itian  principle  and  bravery.
"  My  residence  for  fourteen  years  after  I  became  connected
•i!.'%v  i'
^-:  .;:•/;  i
a]..,T  r
I
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.  69
^  with  the  College  was  in  the  laear  vicinage  of  your  father's  house.
I  I  saw  him  frequently,  and  was  with  him  and  his  family  in  various
I  events  and  fortunes  during  these  years,  years  of  the  birth  of  his
f  children  and  of  the  death  of  some  of  them,  one  of  whom,  sweet
J  little  St.  Clair,  I  remember  watching   by  night,  as   his   little  life
I  'was  wearing  away  to  the  land  of  the  leal.'
I  "Years  of  cholera  and  fever,  of  private  and  public  prosperities
I  and  calamities,  of  gubernational  honors  and  administration,  of
I  political   excitements,    contests   and   policies,  during  years  with
I  such  contests  my  memory  bears  his  impress,  though  not  always
I  with   distinct    or    minute   tracing.       But    some    scenes   distinctly
I  marked  of  various  interest,  of  the  funeral  or  the  festival,  come  up
I  from  out  those  far-distant  years.     Amid  them,  one  evening  of
I  unique  and  memorable  interest  I  distinctly  recall  spent  by  myself
I  and   my  wife  with  your  father  and   mother  and   Mr.   and   Mrs.
I  Daniel  Webster  and  their  daughter,  at  your  father's  house.     Mr.
I  Webster  had  changed  somewhat  since  I  had  seen  him  in  W^ash-
I  ington,  in  the  pride  of  his  strength   in  the  great  constitutional
I  battle  of  the  Titans,  wrestling  with  Calhoun   and   those  of  his
I  school.     Time,  with  its  work  and  wear  and  woriiment,  was  telling
I  somewhat  on  him,  yet  still  his  stalwart  strength  was  on  him,  and
I  perhaps  his  manhood,  as  well  as  his  ambition,  was  never  greater.
%  I  shall  never  forget  his  conversation  with  me  on  the  '  Book  of
I  Job'  that  evening,  by  your  father's  fireside,  and  he  will  ever  con-
I  tinue  as  one  of  the  grand   historic  figures   I  met  with  in  those
I  years  in  your  father's  home  of  princely  hospitalities.
\  "  During  those  years,  your  father  made  a  public  profession  of
I  religion  and  united  with  the  church;  of  the  genuiness  of  which
I  profession  I  had  proof  at  the  close  of  his  life.     I  was  with   him
I  as  he  died  and  I  received  the  confession  of  his  dying  moments.
I  I  shall  never  forget  that  night  nor  the  figures  and  the  grouping
I  around  that  bed  of  death.     The  night  winds  were  out,  and  there
I  was  a  stir  in  the  elements,  as  seemingly  in  sympathy  with  the
I  hour  when  a  great  and  strong  soul  was  departing.  The  blasts came  in  gusts,  fitfully,  now  sighing  and  sobbing,  and  now  with loud  and  mighty  wail,  sweeping  through  the  forest  and  shaking the  window-casementSv
e-N
11....//.:  -y
•  tk.?:  •'/  /;!   ,tHii  n3>?i  bnrl  i
fh!i  »'  -'C/r  ,ur:;fnivt'r.'/  |;iu.
}o    >(0f ).'(,'   ';rl>
yo  GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNXAN.
"  It  was  the  last  hour.  The  sword  given  him  by  an  admiring and  grateful  country  hanging  on  the  wainscoting  over  the  bed  of death,  and  all  the  tokens  and  hopes  of  mortal  fame,  what  were they  all  at  that  hour  to  one  from  the  heavens  and  the  earth  for- ever passing  away?  One  consciously  in  the  outdrift  of  the  etern- ities? That  forn]  of  grandest  manhood,  strongest  and  noblest  of all  its  physical  types  that  were  grouped  around  him  in  thai;  cham- ber and  seemingly  assuring  its  possessor  of  the  longest  life,  was in  the  wrestle  with  death,  sinking  lower  and  lower  into  the  ever- lasting silence.
"And  now  the  last  words  have  been  spoken,  the  last  look given  to  his  loved  wife  and  the  sad  faces  around  him;  the  com- munion with  time  and  earth  is  over,  all  save  one  utterance.  Just as  the  pale,  silent  seal  was  set,  I  asked  him :  '  Governor  Duncan, is  Christ  precious  to  you  at  this  hour? '  Brokenly,  but  to  our hearing  distinctly,  came  the  response,  the  last  words  spoken  by him  till  the  earth  and  sea  give  up  their  dead :  '  Ever  precious, ever  precious.'  And  so  the  soul  of  our  prince  and  brother  passed to  his  Father  and  God.
"  Such  are  some  of  the  reminiscences  and  grouping  of  scenes that  come  up  at  times  with  the  days,  long  ago,  of  my  Illinois  life. I  send  diem,  as  you  request,  as  furnishing  some  glimpses  into  the tenor  and  quality  of  that  life  to  which  'your  life-stream  tracks  its parent  lake.'  A  life  which  nearly  half  a  century  since  j>assed from  this  world  away;  and  yet  not  away,  I  trust;  it  will,  I  hope, descend  as  a  precious  heirloom  to  his  children,  and  to  his  chil dren's  children,  and  to  coming  times,  a  memory  which  a  grateful country  will  not  let  die.
"  I  have  thus,  my  dear  friend,  endeavored  (would  it  had  been with  abler  faculty)  to  catch  and  photograph  some  glimpses  into those  now  far-gone,  fast-fading  years;  glimpses  such  as  at  times come  to  me  in  my  solitary  hours,  and  especially  when  I  walk your  city  cemetery  that  outskirts  your  beautiful  town  among  the graves  of  the  loved  friends  of  other  days,  now  sleeping  there  so still  in  the  chambers  of  silence;  and  among  them  a  family  group of  well  -  remembered   names,  amidst  whom    repose,  waiting   the
•.•.t:.'m.  rir.
',1     I   •    .Mlli.JtJo i      ,  ;  „(j<,.pi     ■(!  J     io    l-
J   h;tt    fiO'T
I  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAxX.  /I
i  ,  ,
I  resurrection  morning,  the  mortal  form  of  one  whose  thoughts  and
I  will  and  voice  and  act  are  forever  incorporated  with  the  early
\  story  of  Illinois,  and  whose  record  and  stamp  will  be  upon   the
I  land  through  its  comin.2:  centuries  of  historv
o
"  ^^'ith  sincere  respect  and  affecti-jn,  yours  truly,
I  ,  "T.  M.  Post."
■'•St.  Louis,  Dec.  23,  18S4.
APPENDIX
Resolutions  of  a  Town  Meeting:
"Jacksonville,  III.,  Jan.  155  1844.
"Intelligence  of  the  death  of  Gov.  Duncan  having  been  com- municated to  the  citizens  of  Jacksonville  on  Tuesday  morning,  a town-meeting  was  called  at  the  Morgan  House  to  offer  a  becom- ing tribute  of  respect  to  the  memory  of  the  deceased.  At  three o'clock  p.m.,  the  citizens  assembled  and  a  meeting  was  organized by  caUing  to  the  chair  Dr.  B.  Gillett,  and  the  appointment  of William  Hodges,  Secretary.
"Capt.  John  Henry  then  rose,  and  in  a  brief  and  appropriate address  explained  the  object  of  the  meeting  and  adverted  to the  moral  worth  and  distinguished  public  services  of  the  de- ceased. \\'hen  he  had  concluded  his  remarks,  on  motion  of  Dr. A.  Smith,  a  committee  consisting  of  Col.  Wm.  B.  Warren,  Caj)i. John  Henry,  and  Murray  McConnel,  Esq.,  was  appointed  to  em- body in  writing  an  expression  of  the  sentiments  of  those  assem- bled. The  comniittee  retired  and  after  a  brief  absence,  returned and  through  their  chairman,  Col.  Warren,  made  the  following report :
'"The  death  of  the  Hon.  Joseph  Duncan,  which  occurred  at his  residence  near  this  place  on  last  evening,  is  an  event  sincerely to  be  deplored  by  all  who  have  known  him,  by  all  who  enter- tained a  just  sense  of  his  merit  and  usefulness.  TJre  best,  tlu; brightest  ornament  and  most  valued  member  of  our  societ\"  i> gone!  No  more  shall  he  mingle  with  those  of  his  family,  hi> friends,  or  his  acquaintances,  who  venerated  and  loved  him!  N'> more  shall  modest  worth  be  encouraged  or  the  less  worthy  be instructed  or  restrained  by  his  living  example.  Plow  incalculalue the  loss!  How  great  the  chasm  in  the  circle  of  his  former-day walks!     Now  that  he  is  no  more,  the  sad  event  reflects  more
72
.iiii:'_,Tiij   ,
:i:'.J  '    ,/n  //
]j:'a-
APPENDIX.  73
vividly  and  strong  to  our  view.  His  many  and  amiable  virtues, Ave  contemplate  them,  and  our  hearts  glow  and  expand  with  feel- ing of  delight  when  we  view  him,  either  in  relation  of  husband, parent,  or  friend.  They  were  all  fondness.  With  his  children, we  have  seen  him  mingle  in  childish  sociality  and  sportiveness, returning  their  fond  endearments  with  equal  simplicity  and  inno- cence. In  the  walks  of  both  private  and  public  life,  a  modest I  and  unassuming  spirit  was  his  peculiar  characteristic.
'"As  a  private  citizen  or  a  public  officer,  he  was  a  man  of  un- common decision  of  character.  He  had  private  interests  as  other men,  but  if  circumstances  required,  these  were  ever  the  victim  of principle.  He  indeed  dared  to  be  honest  in  the  worst  of  times. This  is  no  flattering  portrait;  it  is  strictly  true.  Let  his  family, his  friends,  and  acquaintances  wipe  away  their  tears,  for  the memory  of  his  virtues  lives  and  abides  in  the  hearts  of  all.  Let us  endeavor  to  emulate  his  bright  example  and  indulge  the  hope that  we,  like  him,  when  called  upon  in  the  providence  of  God  to give  an  account  of  our  stewardship  on  earth,  may  merit  and  ob- tain that  reception  awarded  only  to  the  virtuous,  "Well  done, good  and  faithful  servant."
"  ^ Resolved^  That  Cornelius  Hook,  A.  Buckley,  and  J.  O.  King be  appointed  a  committee  to  request  that  the  business  houses  of the  town  be  closed  on  tomorrow  from  ii  until  4  o'clock  p.m.
"  'Resolved,  Tliat  W.  B.  Warren,  James  Dunlap,  and  Dr.  A. Smith  be  a  committee  to  present  to  the  bereaved  family  of  the deceased  a  copy  of  the  foregoing,  and  to  assure  them  of  the  deep commiseration  felt  by  this  community,
"  '■Resolved,  That  the  papers  of  this  place  be  requested  to  pub- lish the  proceedings  of  this  meeting.'
"All  of  which  was  unanimously  adopted.  On  motion,  the meeting  adjourned.  Bazil  Gh-i.ett,  Chairman.
Wm.  PIodgp:s,  Secretary."
"Jacksonville,  March  7,  1844. "  Madam  :  We  herewith  place  at  your  disposal  fifty  copies  of
F\
»,.    r    4^J .  I  i,  rr,  ,•      ?
i-rtM
\-      .:iir.'!V
t    to
74  OOV.  JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
Prof.  Sturtevant's  discourse  at  the  funeral  of  your  lamented  bus" band,  and  beg  to  assure  you  of  our  sincere  regard  for  the  welfare of  yourself  and  family.
In  behalf  of  the  conmiittee  of  citizens,  your  obedient  servants,
David  A.  Smith,
"Mrs.  E.  C.  Duncan.  James  Berdan.'
At  a  meeting  of  the  trustees  of  Illinois  College,  July  ii,  iS44» the  following  resolutions,  prepared  and  offered  by  Prof  Sturtevant, were  read  and  unanimously  passed:
"  Whereas,  it  has  pleased  Almighty  God  to  remove  by  death Hon.  Joseph  Duncan,  late  a  member  of  this  board,  we  deem  it appropriate,  as  it  certainly  is  accordant  with  our  feelings,  to spread  on  our  books  a  record  of  our  deep  sense  of  the  loss  su.s- tained  by  the  college,  by  the  cause  of  learning,  and  by  society  at large  in  the  sudden  death,  while  yet  in  the  very  prime  and  vigor of  his  years,  of  the  pure  and  disinterested  patriot,  the  active  and liberal  patron  of  the  cause  of  learning  and  general  education,  the enterprising  and  public-spirited  citizen,  and  the  sincere  Christian.
"  While  we  would  hear  and  heed  this  solemn  admonition  of Providence  to  do  v/ith  our  might  what  our  hands  find  to  do,  we would  also  ex])ress  our  sincere  and  hearty  s}mpathy  for  his  af- flicted widow  and  her  fatherless  children  as  well  as  his  aged mother  and  other  near  relatives  in  this  mournful  bereavement which  they  have  been  called  to  experience.     Attest,
"iNl'.A.TH.  Coffin,  Secretary,''
"College  Hill,  July  25,  1844. ^'To  Mrs.  E.  C.  Duncan,
"  Dear  Madam :  By  order  of  the  trustees,  I  present  you  the within  testimonials  of  their  sympathy  with  yourself  and  family  in your  most  afflictive  bereavement.
"I  am,  very  respectfully,  your  friend,     Nath.  Coffin,
"Secretary  and  Trustee."
^t-^l ..
APPENDIX.  ■  75
Thomas  Duncan.
Thomas  Duncan,  born  in  Kaskaskia,  III,  April  14,  1819,  was appointed  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  Mounted  Rifles  (now  Third Cavahy)  May  27,  1846;  employed  on  recruiting  service  at  Van- I  dalia,   III,  until   November;    landeci  with   his   regiment   at  A^era
I  Cruz,  assigned   a   position  in   line  of  investment  of  that   place
I  March  13,  1847;  promoted  captain,  March  15,  1848,  while  serv-
I  ing  with  his  company  in  the  City  of  Mexico;  on  duty  at  ¥t.  Leav-
I  enworth,  Kan.,  1849;  ni-^rched  with  his  company  to  Fort  Laramie,
I  Wyoming,  same  year,  remaining  there  until  Sept.,  1851;  then  sent
j  to  Jefferson  Barracks,  Mo.,  to  purchase  horses  for  his  regiment;
■  rejoined  his  company  at  Los  Olmitas,  Tex.,  in   Dec.  1852;  con-
i  tinned  on  duty  in  that  State  until  latter  part  of  1856;  with  regi-
l  ment  at  Fort  L'nion,  N.  M.,  and  on  duty  in  that   territory  until
I  1862,  being  actively  employed  in  held  and  garrison  duties;  corn-
f  manded  Forts  Burgwin  and  Massachusetts,  and  had  charge  of  the
I  construction  of  and  commanded  Fort  Garland,  Col.;  participated
;  in   the  Navajo  expedition  of  1858;  commanded,  in   May,  1861,
I  the  escort  for  the  commissioners  who  were  ap])ointed  to  visit  the
I  Comanches,  and  was   engaged  (commanding)  in  a  combat  with
J  Satanta's  Comanches,  about  fifty  miles  south  of  Fort  Union,  on
I  May  29,  defeating  them  with  severe  loss;  promoted  major  of  his
i  regiment,  to  date  from  June  10,  i86t,  and  was  employed  on  field-
\  service  until  July  30,  1861,  when  he  was  assigned  to  Fort  ^^'ise,
tCol.,  where  he  had  station  until  called  to  Fort  Craig,  N.M.,  to command  his  regiment  and  the  post  during  the  winter  1861-2; '  commanded  the  cavalry  forces  at  the  battle  of  Val  Verde,  N.  ^L,
Feb.  21,  1862,  and  rendered  conspicuous  service  by  supporting I  Flail's  Battery  against   the  repeated  cliarges  of  the  enemy;  was
'  severely  wounded  (a  cannon-ball  grazing  his  head  and  breaking
the  skull)  in  an  engagement  with  the  enemy  near  Albuquerque, i  N.M.,  April  8,  1862;  unfit  for  duty  until  April  25,  1863,  when  he
•  was  assigned  to  duty  as  assistant-provost-rnarshal  general  of  the
State  of  Iowa,  and  later,  chief  mustering-and-disbursing  officer  in
that  State;  was  thus  employed  until  promoted  lieut.-col.  of  Fifdi
c^
h'i'f  (I  mu     I  r'-. )  ,  ;<,-jr^.  llJfirT
:'li
II !   }iyyr  ijl  Ly.
.vi  ..I^.i/1
^6  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
Cavalry  to  date  July  28,  1866,  when  he  joined  the  regiment  at Nashville,  Tenn.,  and  commanded  that  station  from  October, 1866,  to  Sept.,  1S6S;  also  commanded  the  District  of  Nashville from  Dec,  1867,  to  Sept.,  1868,  when  he  was  relieved  and  or- dered to  field-service  in  the  Department  of  the  Platte;  arrived  at Fort  McPherson,  Neb.,  in  May,  1869,  where  he  had  station  until August,  when  he  was  assigned  to  the  command  of  the  Republi- can-River expedition  which  was  disbanded  Oct.  31;  he  then  con- ducted a  battalion  of  the  regiment  to  Fort  D.  A.  Russell,  Wyo- ming, whe'e  he  arrived  in  Nov.,  and  had  station  until  May,  1871; he  was  then  placed  in  charge  of  the  construction  of  Fort  Sidney, Neb.,  where  he  was  in  command  and  employed  when  the  regi- ment was  ordered  to  Arizona  Nov.,  187 1;  his  health  would  not permit  him  to  accompany  the  regiment,  surgeons  warning  him that  with  his  broken  skull  he  could  not  live  in  a  hot  climate.
On  Jan.  15,  1873,  he  was  retired  from  active  service  "for wounds  received  in  the  line  of  duty'';  he  was  made  a  brevet  lieut.- col.  to  date  from  April  8,  1862,  for  gallant  and  meritorious  ser- vices at  the  action  near  Albuquerque,  N.M.,  and  a  brevet-col. and  a  brevet  brig.-gen.  to  date  from  March  13,  1865,  for  merito- rious services  during  the  War  of  the  Rebellion.  His  home  after he  retired  was  in  Washington,  D.C.,  where  he  died  suddenly  Jan. 7,  J887.
Joseph  Duncan  Putnam.
Mrs.  Mary  L.  D.  Putnam  has  been  the  mother  of  eleven  chil- dren, one  daughter  and  ten  sons,  the  eldest  of  whom  bore  the name  of  his  grandfather,  Joseph  Duncan.  He  was  born  Oct.  iS, 1855,  in  the  Duncan  homestead  in  Jacksonville,  111.,  and  died  of consumption  at  his  horn 2  in  Davenport,  la.,  Dec.  10,  1881,  at the  age  of  twenty-six,  after  a  continuous  struggle  of  eight  years with  the  insidious  disease  which  finally  overcame  him.
His  short  but  useful  life  was  devoted  to  scientific  research, more  especially  in  the  department  of  entomology.  When  but  a boy  of  sixteen,  he  was  elected  a  member  of  "The  Davenport
;'':    ..1
'^    Jt;-J     "io
i^  J*^/->iu
-)!V*;f!    ij»  .;jOc.i    ,f  I
APPENDIX.  yj
Academy  of  Natural  Sciences,"  in  Davenport,  la.,  and  was  for many  years  its  corresponding  secretary,  and  held  the  office  of president  of  the  academy  at  the  time  of  his  death.  The  papers read  by  him  before  that  association,  as  well  as  those  furnished  by him  for  publication  in  scientific  journals,  all  indicated  thorougli investigation,  accuracy  of  expression,  and  devotion  to  scientific truth.  His  most  important  investigations  were  never  completed, but  his  notes,  memoranda,  and  unfinished  manuscripts  serve  to show  how  much  the  scientific  world  lost  by  his  untimely  death. The  following  list,  from  "The  Proceedings  of  the  Davenport Academy  of  Sciences,"  includes  his  principal  publications:
r.  1875.  "Report  upon  the  Reconnoissance  of  Northwestern Wyoming,  *  *  made  in  the  summer  of  1873,  by  Wm.  A  Jones, Capt.  of  Engineers. "^ — -"Entomological  Report,  by  J.  D.  Putnam." Pp.  315-8.  This  report  includes  a  list  of  coleoptera,  a  catalogue of  Indian  names  for  insects,  and  a  catalogue  of  Indian  names for  colors.  The  chapter  on  meteorology  (pp.  58-81)  is  compiled mainly  from  Mr.  Putnam's  observations.
5.  1876.  "  Proceedings  of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Natural Sciences."  Vol.  I. — "The  Maple-Bark  l.ow^t  (/traninm  acervicola).' Pp.  37-8.
3.  1876.  Ibid.  "  Hieroglyphics  observed  in  Summit  Anon, Utah,  and  on  Little  Popoagie  River  in  Wyoming."  Pp.  143-5. PI.  xxvii.-xxx.
4.  1876.  Ibid.  "Lists  of  Iowa  Coleoptera  and  lepidopteray Pp.   169-77.
5.  1876.  Ibid.  "  Lists  of  Colorado  Coleoptera  d.Vi6.  Lepidopt era'' Pp.   177-87.
6.  1876.  Ibid.  "Report  on  the  Insects  collected  by  Capt.  Jones' Expedition  to  Northwestern  ^Vyoming  in  1873."     Pp.  187-91.
7.  1876.   "Indian  Names  for  Insects."     P.  192.
8.  1876.  Ibid.  "Report  on  the  Insects  collected  in  the  Vicin- ity of  Spring-Lake  Villa,  Utah  County,  Utah,  during  the  summer of  1875."     -^P-  193-205.
9.  1876.  Ibid.   "  J>ist  oi  Ilyjnefiopfera  collected  by  J.  Duncan
i.'.r.i:»!i'{  .U
.',^r^■.■.^  rvyj^,  'ts^xwi—
,V.\.A,^.\    biffi    ^n"i\^t)->VO   f.'
78  GOV.  JOSEPH    DUNCAN.  ^'^
Putnam,    ^     *    with  descriptions  of  new  species.    By  E.  T.  Cres- son."     Pp.  2c6-ii.
10.  1S76.  Idi\/.  "List  of  Orthoptera  collected  by  J.  Duncan Putnam  '^  *  during  the  summers  of  1872-5,  chiefly  in  Colo- rado, Utah,  and  Wyoming  Territories.  P>y  Cyrus  Thomas."  Pp. 249-64.
11.  1876.  Ibid.  "(Entomological)  Notes."  Pp.  265-7.  PI. XXXV.,  XXX vi.
The  foregoing  papers  were  separately  issued  under  the  title  of "  Entomological  Contributions,  from  the  Proceedings  of  the  Dav- enport Academy  of  Natural  Sciences,  Vol.  I."
12.  1877.  "Popular  Science  Monthly,"  Vol.  X.,  "Insects  and Flowers  in  Colorado."     Pp.  612-14.
13.  1877.  "Proceedings  of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Natural Sciences,"  Vol.  II.,  Part  I.,  "  Horned  Toads  in  the  Collection  of the  Academy."     P.  22.
14.  1S77.  Ibid.  "On  the  young  of  a  species  of  Lycosa."  P.  23-4.
15.  1877.  Ibid.  "Remarks  on  Galcodes pallipes^  Say."  Pp.  35-6.
16.  1880.  Ibid.  A^ol.  II.,  Part  II.,  " Biological  and  other  notes on  Coccidie.'''     Pp.  293-347.     PI.  xii.,  xiii.
The  last-named  paper  was  also  issued  separately.  The  species treated  are  Piilviiiaria  inniuiierabilis  and  Aspidatus  aricycliis.
17.  1880.  "Transactions  of  the  Iowa  Horticultural  Society," Vol.  v.,  "  Rust-producing  Mites."     P.  365.
18.  1880.  "Proceedings  of  the  American  Association,"  Vol. XXIX.,  Boston  meeting,  "Notes  on  North-American  Galeodes." Printed  by  title  only.      P.  671.
19.  1881.  Proceedings  of  the  Iowa  Academy  of  Sciences,  Vol. L,  Part  II.  (not  yet  printed),  "Observations  on  Galeodes."
20.  1S81.  "Proceedings  of  the  American  Association,  Vol. XXX.,  Cincinnati  meeting  (not  yet  printed),  "Notes  on  a  Bibli- ography of  the  (ialeodid^c."
21.  1881.   "  Proceedings  of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Nat-
APPENDIX.  79
ural  Sciences,'"' Vol.  III.,  Part  11.   (in  press),  "Remarks  on   the Habits  of  several  Western  Cicadcey     Pp.  67-8.
For  one  so  young,  he  attained  high  distinction  in  the  scientific world.  The  following  few,  selected  from  many  letters  addressed to  his  fellow-members  of  the  Academy,  tell  somewhat  of  the  high estimation  in  which  he  was  held  by  other  scientists.  From  Prof. Spencer  F.  Baird,  secretary  Smithsonian  Institute,  Washington, D.C.:  ^  
"Smithsonian  Institute, "Washington,  D.C,  Dec.  20,  1881.
"Sir:  In  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  loth inst.,  which  conveys  the  painful  intelligence  that  Prof.  Joseph Duncan  Putnam,  president  of  Davenport  Academy  of  Sciences, has  been  called  from  his  earthly  labors,  I  beg  to  state  that  while through  this  dispensation  of  Providence  the  Academy  sustains  a double  loss,  in  that  by  the  death  of  Prof.  Putnam  it  is  deprived of  an  honored  presiding  officer,  and  at  the  same  time  of  an  asso- ciate who  was  ever  zealous  for  the  success  of  the  establishment, the  cause  of  science  is  again  called  upon  to  mourn  the  departure from  earth  of  a  devoted  friend  and  conscientious  collaborator.
"  Begging  that  you  will  convey  to  the  members  of  the  Academy and  to  the  family  and  friends  of  Prof.  Putnam  the  assurance  that in  their  bereavement  they  have  the  profound  sympathies  of  the officers  of  this  institution.  I  am,  very  truly  yours,
"Spencer  F.  Baird,  Secretary.
"W.  H.  Pratt,  Davenport,  la."
From  Prof.  Asa  Gray,  Cambridge,  Mass.:
"Cambridge,  Mass.,  Jan.  4,  1882.
"My  Dear  Sirs:  I  learn  that  a  meeting  of  the  Davenport  Ac- ademy is  convened  to  take  notice  of  the  death  of  its  late  corres- ponding secretary,  Tvlr.  Joseph  Duncan  Putnam.  It  is  well  that you  should  put  upon  record  for  future  times  some  memorial  oi
<^"
7T.t.^ji:
80  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNXAX.
the  services  and  character  of  the  associate  who  is  now  lost  to you.  Young  as  he  was.  I  suppose  he  is  to  be  ranked  among  your founders:  at  least,  his  place  in  your  history  is  a  very  early  one. Of  what  he  did  for  your  society,  of  what  he  accomplished  for science,  of  the  serious  disadvantage  under  which  he  labored  in  f
doing  this  from  almost  life-long  ill-health,  of  the  enthusiasm  which supplied  the  place  of  bodily  strength,  and  of  the  fruits  of  his  de- votion which  you  are  enjoying  in  the  prosperity  and  good  name of  the  Academy,  it  is  quite  unnecessary  that  I  should  write  a word.  His  name  and  place  in  the  science  which  he  pursued with  such  devotion  are  made  sure  by  being  incorporated  into  tlie imperishable  records  which  natural  history  builds  into  its  very fabric  as  its  structure  rises,  through  the  combined  labors  of  all  its gifted  devotees.
"  Let  me  only  say  that  what  struck  me  in  my  intercourse  with Putnam  was  his  sobriety  of  judgment  and  simplicity  of  spirit. Never  have  I  seen  a  cooler  and,  we  say,  more  level  head  borne upon  such  young  shoulders;  nor  is  it  often  that  such  gifts  and acquisitions  as  his  are  borne  with  such  genuine  modesty  by one  so  young  and  so  situated.  Little  as  I  have  actually  been with  him,  I  feel  that  I  have  lost  a  valued  friend.  Yet  it  was  all along  evident  that  he  could  not  remain  long  with  us,  and  thank- ful should  we  be  that  even  that  brief  span  vv-as  protracted  quite beyond  all  ordinary  expectation.  Yery  truly  yours,
"Asa  Gray. ''  Messrs.  Preston,  Lyxch,  and  Fultox,
"Committee  of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Natural  Sciences."
From  George  Engelman,  M.D.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.:  1
"St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Jan.  6,  1882.  ;   f
"Messrs.  Preston,  Lynch,  and  Fulton,  Committee,  ;   I
Goitlemeii:  Your  letter  of  invitation  was  unfortunately  mislaid,  '    |
and  I  am   thus  prevented  from  being  present,  even  by  this  my  |
answer  to  your  invitation,  at  the  memorial  meeting  in  honor  of  \
uJ
boi'?  iijo   "^n   )f
APPENDIX.  8 1
-I  my  late  friend,  the  president  of  your  Academy,  Joseph  Duncan
I  Putnam.
1  "I   heartily  sympathize  with  you   and  your  institution  in   the
f  irreparable  loss  you  have  sustained  in  the  demise  of  your  gifted
I  young  president,  whose   talents,  zeal,  and  energy  have   already
\  made  him  conspicuous,  and  would  have  achieved  great  success
\  in  science  if  a  longer  life  had  been  vouchsafed  to  him.
I  *       '"Accept  my  sincere  condolence  for  the  great   loss  you,  and
I  with  you  science,  has  sustained  in  the  death  of  young  Putnam.
I  "  Yours  respectfully,         G.  Engelmann."
I  From  Prof  Samuel  H.  Scudder,  Cambridi^e,  Mass.:
j  "Cambridge,  Mass.,  Jan.  7,  18S2.
I  *' Messrs.  C.  H.  Prestox  and  others,
i  Committee  of  the  Davenport  Academy,
j  Gejitlemeii:  I  regret  it  will  not  be  in  my  power  to  attend  the
i  meeting  you  propose  to  hold  on  the  12th  inst.     I  should  be  glad
to  testify  by  my  presence  the  esteem  in  which  i  have  ever  held Mr.  Putnam,  both  as  a  personal  friend  and  as  a  fellow-student  of j  nature.     'J'he  persistent  energy  with  which  he  not  only  undertook,
}  but  carried  to  completion,  investigations  of  a  serious  and  difficult
j  nature,  when  his  time  was  so  largely  occupied  in  the  administra-
I  tion  of  a  public  trust  of  which  he  was,  perhaps,  the  mainstay,
and  all  the  while  laboring  under  the  heavy  disadvantage  of  a  seri- ous and  wearing  malady,  can  only  be  fully  appreciated  by  those who  understand  the  tax  upon  his  strength  which  each  of  these entailed.  They  bring  out,  too,  into  clearer  relief  and  more  vivid light  the  purity  of  his  purpose  and,  to  those  who  knew  him  best, the  gentleness  of  his  character,  which  made  intercourse  with  him a  delight.  Many  a  man  of  vigorous  constitution  v/ould  have shrunk  from  the  labors  he  gladly  undertook ;  {t\N  would  have acconiplished  them  so  well.  To  us  at  the  East,  v/ho  look  upon your  affairs  at  a  distance,  and,  as  it  were,  by  a  bird's-eye  view,  it seems  as  if  without  him  the  Davenport  Academy  would  never have  had  half  so  vigorous  a  growth,  nor  proved  so  timely  and 6
,w,  .ft:;<  '
S2  GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
beneficent  an  example  to  the  younger  communities  of  our  coun- try. His  efforts  and  example  have  surely  given  it  an  impulse which  will  long  enable  it  to  sustain  the  character  it  enjoys;  let  us even  hope  for  something  better.  At  the  same  time,  his  writings are  amongst  the  most  scholarly  achievements  of  the  scientific men  of  the  Western  States,  and  show  him  to  the  world  a  modest and  safe  pioneer  in  paths  of  his  own  choosing.  It  is  earnestly  to be  hoped  that  he  left  his  material  for  the  long-looked-for  mono- graph of  the  Solpugid?e  in  such  shape  that  the  Academy  can  give- it  to  the  world  at  an  early  day,  and  that  the  Academy  will  feel this  a  trust  which  it  can  not  rightly  fail  to  assume.  With  thanks- for  your  kind  invitation,  I  remain,  very  respectfully  yours,
"Samuel  H.  Scudder."
From  C.  V.  Riley,  U.-S.  Entomologist,  Washington,  D.C.:
"Washington,  D.C,  Dec.  31,  1881. "Gentlemen:  As  I  can  not  be  present  at  the  meeting  of  the members  of  the  Academy  which  is  to  be  held  in  memory  of  its- deceased  president.  Mr.  J.  Duncan  Putnam,  permit  me  in  this way  to  express  my  deep-felt  sorrow  at  the  death  of  a  friend  whom I  esteemed,  and  one  so  untiringly  and  unselfishly  devoted  to  the interests  of  natural  science,  and  so  beloved  by  all  with  whom  he came  in  contact.  Of  late  years  he  battled  so  bravely  with  suffer- ing that  each  time  I  have  met  him  since  our  first  meeting  in  1S7J he  seemed  improved  in  general  health  and  strength,  and  when  at my  house  not  many  months  since,  1  felt  a  strong  hope  and  beliet that  his  persistent  and  unclouded  mental  activity,  and  his  enthu- siastic love  of  nature,  by  leading  him  into  field  and  wood  and obliging  that  out  door  activity  so  essential  to  the  valetudinarian,, would  ultimately  conijuer  the  disease  he  suffered,  so  that  many years  of  usefulness  might  yei  be-sixired  to  him.  The  news  of  his death  came  therefore  as  a  shock.  All  who  knew  him  will  mourn his  loss,  and  it  can  be  said  of  few  as  it  can  of  him  that  he  never made  an  enemy — never  did  a  wrong  1  Pray  tender  my  hearttek condolence  to  his  bereaved  parents  and  relatives,  and  believe  me» "Yours  respectfully,         C.  V.  Riley."
y
\y^\  .1;  .;jjCl
11))       Us      -..Mil
INDEX.
Abolitionists,  Gov.  Duncan's  disap- proval of,  50-52,  et  seq. :  their  aims stated,  53.
Adams,  John  Quincy,  D.  P.  Cook's popularity  affected  by  his  vote  for, 19;  J^uff  Green  opposes  Gen.  Jack- son calling  upon,  20;  contrast  be- tween his  entry  into  and  retirement from  ofhce,  21;  did  not  appear  on March  4,  1829;  contrasted  with Jackson  by  Clay ;  circulation  of offensive  handbills  relating  to,  21, 22;  turned  out  for  extravagance; VanHuren  more  extravagant  than, 30;  (iov.  Duncan  dmes  with,  55.
Adams-and-Clay  whig-^,  Gov.  Duncan one  of,  27;  fusion  between  demo- crats and;  their  candidate  for  presi- dent, 28.
Albany,  N.Y.,  VanUuren's  political record  at,  30;  mention,  5S.
Albuquerque,  X.M.,  Maj.  'Ihos.  Dun- can wounded  in  engagement  near, 75;  Lt.-Col.  Thos.  Duncan's  gal- lant services  at,  76.
Alexandria,  \'a.,  mention,  21.
Alieghanies,  mention,  6.
Allen,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Beverly,  Gov. and  Mrs,  Duncan  meet,  56.
Alton,  111.,  anathematized  l^y  public prints,  51,  52;  Lovejoy's  presses destroyed  at,  51.
Alton  ri;)ts,  an  event  of  momentous importance,  48;  (jov.  Duncan's views  regarding,  49.
/1/^ofi  [111.  J  V't/eciraM,  cited,  44  n.
Arizona  Territory,  Lieut. -C"ol.  Thos. Duncan  ordered  to,  76.
Ashley,  Mrs.  Gen.  John  II.,  Gov.  and Mrs.  Duncan  vi.iit,  56.
B
Baldwin,  James,  mentione<l  for  r^ecre tary  of  the  treasury,  20.
I  Eaird,  Prof.  Spencer  F.,  secretary  of j  Smithsonian  In-titute;  his  'tribute j  to  memory  of  Jo^.  D.  Putnam,  79. j  Bank,  U.-S.,  public  moneys  with- drawn from;  the  president  wishes to  destroy,  38.
Banks,  a  party-issue,  32;  Gov.  Dun- can's views  regarding,  32,  34;  the defects  of,  34;  an  engrossing  sub- ject of  public  attention,  37,  48; multiplication  of  irresponsible,  38; see  also  .state  Bank.
Barber,  Cornelia,  daughter  of  secre- tary of  war;  bridesmaid  to  Mrs. Gov.  Duncan,  56.
Baylor,  Lieut.  Cyrus  A.,  aids  in  the defence  of  Ft.  Stephenson;  assisted by  Ensign  Duncan,  14;  presented with  sword  by  congress,  16.
Beechcr,  Rev.  Edward,  a  trustee  of 111.  College;  iribute  to  Gov.  Dun- can by,  66.
Bell,  Mrs.  James,  a  sister  of  Mrs. Wm.  Duncan,  9.
Berdan,  James,  sends  Prof.  Sturte- vant's  funeral  sermon  on  Gov.  Dun- can to  his  widow,  74.
Bergen,  Rev.  John  G.,  mention,  65.
Berlin,  III.,  Gen.  James  M.  Duncan dies  at,  8.
Black  Ilawk,  treaty  of  peace  con- cluded by,  26.
Black -I  lawk  War,  (iov.  Duncan  a brigadier-general  in,  26.
Black  Swamp,  Ensign  Duncan's  ad- ventures in,  10,  r  I.
BIackl)Uin,  Rev.  Gideon,  Gov.  Dun- can's letter  to,  49-53.
Blackwell,  Robe't,  Daniel  P.  Cook associated  with;  purcha.ses  ////;/6'/j 'Hn-ahi,  8.
Blake,  William,  groomsman  to  Gov. Duncan,  56.
Bogg^,  Lilburn  W. ,  governor  of  Mis- souri; expels  Mormons,  46.
Courbon  Co.,  Ky.,  Gov.  Duncan  a native  of,  7.
-ii..o    -^--O,
84
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN,
Brown,  Bedford,  a  member  of  Pres- byterian ch'ch  building-commiitee; subscribes  to  building-fund,  60.
Buckley,  A.,  member  of  com.  to  re- quest closing  of  business  houses,  73.
Buffalo,  N.V.,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Dun- can journey  to  by  wagon,  58.
Butler,  Benj.  Franklin,  his  correspon- dence with  Gov.  Duncan,  16,  17.
Cairo,  111.,  mention,  56.
Caldwell,  Ann,  cousin  to  Mrs.  Dun- can; comes  West  in  carriage,  62.
Caldwell,  Elias  Boudinot,  clerk  of  the U.-S.  supreme  court  at  Washing- ton; mentioned;  imcle  of  Mrs.  Gov. Duncan,  62.
Calhoun,  John  Caldwell,  mention,  69.
Cambridge,  Mass.,  mention,  79,  81.
Campbell,  Maj.  Geo.  W.,  resident  of Tenn. ;  holds  interview  with  Dun- can; promised  appointment  in  111.; Duncan  opposes  appointment  of,  23
Canada,  U.-S.  troops  marching  tow- ard, 10;  Duncan  leads  force  into,  18
Carlyle,  111.,  mention,  56.
Cairoll,  Wm.  T.,  dines  with  presi- dent; introduced  to  .Mrs.  Duncan, 55;  groomsman  to  Gov.  Duncan,  56
Carrollton,  Ky.,  mention,  55.
Casey,  Zadoc,  elected  lieutenant-gov- ernor of  III. ;  succeeded  by  Wm.  L. D.  Ewing;  elected  to  congress,  26.
Centralization,  Gov.  Duncan  depicts evils  of,  40.
Cheves,  Landon,  probably  one  of  five to  be  in  Jackson's  cabinet,  20.
Chicago,  President  Jackson  vetoes appropriation  for  improving  harbor at,  27;  difficulty  in  collecting  in- stalments on  sales  of  lots  in,  40; Gov.  Duncan  invests  in  real  estate in,  63;  sacrifice  of  1  >ls  in  Duncan's Addition  to,  64.
Chicago  fire,  (^ov.  Duncan's  papers destroyed  in,  5.
Chicago  Historical  Soc'y,  Gov.  Dun- can's papers  sent  to,  5.
China,  mention,  67.
Christianity,  true  and  false,  52.
City  of  .Mexico,  Eieut.  Thos.  Duncan serves  in,  75.
Clark,  J.,  subscribes  to  fund  for  erect- ing church,  60.
Clarke,  Matthew  St,  Clair,  calls  upon President-elect  Jackson  with  iJun- can,  20;  dines  with  Pres't  Adams; clerk  of  U.-S.  house  of  represen- tatives, 55.
Clarke,  Mrs.  Matthew  St. Clair  (Mary Smith),  a  sister  of  Mrs.  Gov,  Dun- can, 55;  Gov.  Duncan  married  at her  house,  56;  Gov,  Duncan  draws plan  from  her  house,  62.
Clay,  Henry,  his  stirring  appeals  for volunteers,  9;  his  caustic  compari- son between  Adams  and  Jackson, 22;  defection  among  supporters  of, 28;  Gov.  Duncan  sympathizes  with,
53-
Cleveland,  O.,  an  objective  point  of the  British  in  18 12,  14;  mention,  58.
Clinton,  DeWitt,  supported  for  the presidency  by  VanBuren,  30.
Coffin,  Nalhaniel,  treasurer  of  Illinois College,  54,  74;  acknowledges  sub- scriptions from  Gov.  Duncan,  54, 55;  secretary  of  trustees  of  Illinois College;  sends  resolutions  of  sym- pathy to  Mrs.  PJuncan,  74.
College  Hill,  Jacksonville,  Nathaniel Coffin  dates  letter  from,  74.
Colleges,  Gov.  Duncan's  recommen- dations concerning,  34,  35,  45.
Colombia,  S.  A.,  Duncan  recommends E.  J.  West  for  diplomatic  appoint- ment in,  22.
Comanches,  Capt.  Thomas  Duncan commands  escort  of  commissioners to ;  led  by  .Satanta ;  defeated  by U.-S.  troops,  75.
Common  schools,  establishm.ent  oi pressed  by  Gov.  Duncan,  32,  }}, .'•56,  37,  45;  how  affected  by  Gov. Duncan's  views,  34.
Congress  rewards  defenders  of  Fort Stephenson,  15,  16,  67;  D.  P.  Cook repeatedly  elected  to;  Gov.  Dun- can three  times  elected  to,  19;  <jO"«'. Duncan  remains  at  his  post  at,  27; stockhoklers  in  bank  should  be  re- sponsible to,  32;  its  power  over national  currency,  38;  Illinois  tru  .- tee  of  fund  appropriated  by,  41 ;  it-"^ right  to  investigate  public  officers, 42;  members  of  should  not  be  ap-
INDEX,
8S
pointed  to  office,  44:  pledged  to complete  III.-:ind-Mich.  Canal,  45; Joseph  Duncan  a  member  of,  55, 66;  Rev.  Reuben  Post  chaplain  in, 67.
Conn,  Eunice,  mention,  61,  62.
Conn,  Julia,  choir-singer  at  Jackson- ville, 61.
Conner,    ,    U.-S.   marshal;   C.
vSlade  wants  to  succeed,  22.
Convention  system,  introduced  into Illinois;  opposition  to,  27,  28;  com- monly used  by  all  parties,  28.
Cook,  Daniel  ro]')e,  associated  with Robert  Black  well;  purchases  Illi- nois Herald,  8;  his  political  career sketched;  defeated  for  congress  by Duncan,  19.
Coon,  Mrs.,  half-sister  to  Mrs.  (Rev.) J.  M.  Ellis,  60.
Croghan,  Col.  (Jeorge,  in  command at  Eort  Stephenson,  ii;  prepares for  defence;  ordered  to  evacuate; determines  to  defend;  superseded, 12;  resumes  command;  character  of defence  made  by,  13;  his  success, 13,  14,  15;  selects  Ensign  Duncan to  command  reserve,  14;  his  ser- vices recognized  and  rewarded  by congress,  15.
Crawford,  Col.  William,  burned  at the  stake,  10.
Currency,  the  proper  mode  of  regu- lating, 32 ;  power  of  congress  to regulate,  38,  41 ;  Gov.  Duncan  de- plores depreciation  of,  38,  39.
Dark  Continent,  t^e,  mention,  67.
Dashiell,  Rev.  Alfred  H.,  pastor  of Presbyter'n  church  in  Jacksonville; has  difficul'y  with  congregation,  64; resigns  and  removes,  64,  65;  Gov. Duncan's  attachment  to;  the  latter seeks  reinstatement  of,  without  suc- cess, 65.
Davenport,  Ja,,  Jose[>h  D.  Putnam dies  at,  76;  mention,  66,  79.
Davcn[)ort  Academy  of  Natural  Sci- ences, Jos.  D.  Putnam  a  member and  secretary  of,  76,  77;  Jos,  D. Putnam  reads  papers  before;  its proceedings  cited,  77.
Davis,  Warren  R.,  member  of  con- gress; present  with  Gov,  Duncan  at p'-esident's  dinner-party,  24.
Detroit,  Mich.,  Ky.  troo.^s  marching to,  10;  mention,  17.
Detroit  River,  Gov.  (then  Lt. )  Dun- can crosses,  iS.
Distribution,  a  party  issue,  32.
District  of  Columbia,  its  inhabitants' sycophancy,  21.
Douglas,  Stephen  Arnold,  secretary of  state  in  184O;  influential  in  se- curing ch.arter  of  Nauvoo,  46.
Duncan,  Gen,  James  M.,  mention,  7; second  brother  of  Gov.  Jose])h ; graduates  at  Transylvania;  infantry captain  in  War  of  1812;  settles  at Vandalia;  clerk  of  supreme  court; removes  to  Springfield;  merchant at  Jacksonville ;  religious  connec- tions; domestic  relations^  8;  writes to  Joseph  Duncan;  wants  appoint- ment as  Indian  agent;  his  applica- tion not  favored  by  Joseph  Duncan, 24. I  Duncan,  John,  youngest  brother  of Gov.  Joseph  Duncan;  a  physician; his  characteristics;  his  death,  9; mention,  7.
Duncan,  Maj.  Jorseph,  father  of  Gov. Duncan;  sketch  of,  7.
Duncan,  Gov.  Joseph,  author's  hesi- tancy in  writing  life  of;  difficulties in  way  of  obtaining  data  for  history of,  5;  born  in  Kentucky;  his  par- entage; his  father's  third  child;  hi'; brothers  and  sifter;  appointed  tlie guardian  to  latter;  his  affection  for Illinois,  6,  7;  his  early  enlistment in  U.-S.  army;  promoted  to  rank of  ensign;  lettei  from  Philip  Shro- ver  to,  9;  review  of  his  military services  in  War  of  1812,  10,  et  seq. : his  thrilling  adventure  as  bearer  of dispatches,  10,  ii;  his  gallant  con- duct at  Ft.  Stephenson,  11-15,  67; his  modesty  illustrated,  15;  pre- sented with  svvonl  by  resolution  of congress,  15,  16,  67;  his  acknowl- edgment of  same;  correspondence between  B.  F.  Butler  and,  16,  17; as  lieutenant  leads  a  force  into Canada,  17,  18;  perilous  cros>ing of  Lake  Erie  by;  returns  to  Ken-
86
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
tucky  at  the  close  of  war;  early attracted  to  Illinois;  his  removal thereto;  his  uncle  state  treasurer; his  rapid  rise  in  popularity;  major- general  of  militia;  a  state  senator, i8;  while  state  senator  introduces bill  for  school-law,  i8,  19;  defeats D.  r.  Cook  for  congress;  character  | of  the  triumph;  a  member  of  the 20th,  2 1st,  and  22d  congresses;  re-  | fuses  to  support  Duff  Green,  19;  his criticisms  on  latter;  calls  on  Jack- son, 19,  20;  extracts  from  his  diary, 19-26;  attends  Jackson's  inaugural reception;  his  sentiments  and  acts relative  to  removals  and  appoint- ments; consults  with  McLe.ia  and Kane  as  to  appointments,  22;  re- monstrates with  Jackson  against Maj.  Campbell's  appointment;  his interview  with  Jackson  and  Eaton as  to  Illinois-and-Michigan  Canal, 23;  his  opposition  to  nepotism,  24; elected  to  congress  from  northern district,  26;  sole  representative  from Illinois,  26,  55;  a  l)rigadier-general in  the  Black- Hawk  war,  26;  elected governor  over  Kiimey,  26,  28;  suc- ceeds Gov.  Reynolds;  succeeded  in congress  by  latter;  his  conversation with  latter  as  to  the  exchange,  26; no  personal  canvass  made  when candidate  for  g<jvernor;  a  supporter of  Jackson;  his  reasons  for  break- ing with  the  administration ;  an Adams-and-Clay  whig,  27;  charac- ter of  his  support;  his  hostility  to \'an[Jurcn;  cause  of  his  opposition to  Jackson  misstated,  28;  his  esti- mate of  Jackson's  character,  28,  29; contrasts  Jackson  with  VanBuren, 29;  justifies  his  opposition  to  Jack- son's administration,  29,  30;  his intimacy  with  Jackson;  charges neglect  of  iatter's  pledges,  30;  not a  partisan;  tribute  to  iiis  independ- ence; opposes  state  claims  to  pub- lic offices,  31 ;  Iiis  viev.'s  on  party organization,  31,  32;  his  message  of 1834  cited;  calls  attention  to  the subject  of  educalif;n,  32,  ^2i'y  P''*^* diets'  Illinois'  future;  his  plea  for purity  of  elections;  tiefines  issues  of the  day;  his  views  on  the  latter,  32;
favors  early  completion  of  III. -and- Mich.  Canal,  33,  40,  41 ;  his  views on  common-schools  in  advance  of public  sentiment;  their  influence  on public  opinion;  opposes  charter  of state  bank ;  his  views  regarding !  banks  generally,  34;  his  message  of I  Dec,  1835,  cited;  calls  a  special j  session;  recommends  loan  for  com- pletion of  canal,  35;  opposes  public maintenance  of  internal  improve- ment, ^s,  36,  37,  39,  43;  'li^  mes- sage to  the  legislature  of  1S36-7; reiterates  his  views  concerning  com- mon-schools, 36,  37;  vetoes  bill establishing  system  of  internal  im- provements, 37;  his  recommenda- tions justified  by  experience,  37,  3S; synopsis  of  his  message  to  the  leg- islature of  1837,  37;  same  cited  in full,  38,  et  seq.;  recommends  repeal of  lav,'  establishing  system  of  inter- nal improvement,  39,  40;  his  ser- vices in  sale  of  state  bonds,  44  n; his  appreciation  of  his  official  obli- gations; discusses  intemperance,  45; renominated  for  governor;  opposed by  the  Mormons,  46;  rival  candi- dates, 46,  47;  fosters  anti-Mormon feeling;  defeated  by  Eord;  his  polit- ical ends;  tribute  to  his  Vv'orth,  47; prominent  issues  during  his  guber- natorial term,  48;  letter  to  Rev. Gideon  Blackmore;  his  views  re- garding the  Alton  riots;  criticism on  Lovejoy,  49-53;  his  disapproba- tion of  abolitionists,  50-52,  et  sr/.; his  disapproval  of  slavery,  5-'  53' his  sympathy  with  Henry  Clay;  his reverence  for  the  Constitution;  let- ter to  S.  D.  Lockwood  from;  bis motives  for  leaving  Kentucky;  op- poses introduction  of  slavery  into Illinois;  favors  gradual  emancira- tion,  53;  withholds  his  resignatioii as  trustee  of  Illinois  College;  his deep  interest  in  education  and  tem- perance; contributes  half  his  salary for  support  of  temperance  paper; his  liberal  subscription  to  temper- ance society,  54;  his  liberality  tov.-- ard  Illinois  College,  54,  55'.  ^''■' service  as  trustee  of  111.  College, 55,  66;  dines  with  Pres't  Adam.>;
INDEX.
87
complimented  by  Henry  Clay;  in- troduced to  his  future  wife;  his  in- terest in  the  Institution  for  the Education  of  Deaf  r^Iutes;  l^.ist president  of  its  board  ot  trustees, 55;  he  marries  Elizabeth  Caldwell Smith;  date  and  place  of  wedding; his  gToomsmen,  56;  his  weddings- journey  described  by  his  wife,  56- 5S ;  his  personal  appearance ;  his stay  in  Washington;  his  return  to Jacksonville.  58;  description  of  his first  home  in  Jacksonville;  his  skill as  a  hunter,  59,  60:  his  care  of  his children  in  sickness;  extract  from his  diary;  makes  do-.iation  to  Pres- byterian church,  60;  his  barn-rais- ing; in  congress  in  1830,  61 ;  elected governor  in  1S34;  comes  West  to remain,  62;  moves  his  family  West in  carriages;  has  son  born;  unites with  Presbyterian  church,  62,  64; gives  barbecue  to  Daniel  Webster; his  hospitality;  adds  to  his  patri- mony; receives  a  fortune  with  his wife,  62;  a  scheme  of  Jackson  men to  break  down;  his  wifes  estate placed  in  his  hands;  invests  same in  real  estate ;  executes  deed  of trust  to  J.  M.  Sturtevant;  depre- ciation of  investments;  brother-in- law  to  William  Lynn;  bondsman for  latter,  63;  suffers  financial  loss through  defalcation  of  Lynn;  judg- ments entered  against  on  Lynn's bond;  his  yjroperty  sacrificed  to meet  same;  his  death  untimely;  his pergonal  creditors  unpaid  after  his death,  64;  his  attachment  for  Mr. Dashell;  hi.-,  efforts  to  organize  an- other church;  unites  with  church  in Pisgah;  his  religious  character;  let- ter to  his  wife,  65;  Dr.  Edward Beecher's  tribute  to;  his  death,  66; trustees  of  Lll.  College  adopt  reso- lution->  on  death  of,  74;  Dr.  T.  M. Post  describes  hom.e,  68,  and  de- scribes death -bed  of,  69,  70;  reso- lutions eulogizing,  adopted  by  pub- lic meeting  at  Jacksonville,  72,  73. Duncan,  Mrs.  Joseph  (Plizabeth  Cald- well Smith),  diner,  with  President Adams;  introduced  to  Gov.  Dun- can, 55;  extracts  from  her  diary.
55-62;  describes  her  wedding;  her bridesmaids,  56;  her  experience  in winter  of  "the  deep  snow,"  61 ; value  of  her  inheritance;  how  same v/as  to  be  paid;  how  invested  by her  husband;  result  of  such  invest- ment, 62;  an  invalid;  her  property sold  at  a  sacrifice,  63,  64;  her  mor- tification at  non-payment  of  her husband's  debts,  64;  receives  copies of  funeral  sermon  on  the  governor, 73,  74;  receives  resolutions  of  sym- pathy from  trustees  of  Illinois  Col- lege, 74.
Duncan,  Joseph,  jr.,  his  birth  and baptism,  62;  mention,  66.
Duncan,  Mary  L.,  child  of  Gov.  and Mrs.  Duncan,  60,  62,  66;  escapes cholera,  60;  marries  Chas.  E.  Put- nam, 66,  mention,  62.
Duncan,  Matthew,  brother  of  Gov. Joseph,  7;  educated  at  Vale  Col- lege; a  journalist  and  publisher; enters  U.-S.  army;  engages  in  busi- ness; his  domestic  ties;  death,  8.
Duncan,  Nannie,  child  of  Gov.  and Mrs.  Duncan;  mention,  62.
Duncan,  Polly  Ann,  daughter  of  Maj. Joseph  Duncan;  Gov.  Duncan  her guardian,  7 ;  married  to  William Linn;  a  brilliant  woman,  9.
Duncan,  St.  Clair,  child  of  Gov.  and Mrs.  Duncan;  his  sickness  and  re- covery; Gov.  Duncanscare  of  him; his  medical  attendance,  60 ;  Dr. Post  watches  death  of,  69;  mention, 62,  65.
Duncan,  Thomas,  son  of  Maj.  Joseph Duncan;  third  brother  of  Gov.  Jos, Duncan,  7,  8;  a  graduate  of  Tran- sylvania; practises  law  at  Nash- ville, Tenn. ;  domestic  relations; accidentally  killed,  9.
Duncan,  Gen.  Thomas,  son  of  Mat- thew Duncan;  attached  to  regular army,  8;  retired  from  active  ser- vice; promoted;  his  home  at  Wash- ington, D.C. ;  his  sudden  death,  8, 76;  skelcli  of  his  life,  75,  ei  seq.; date  and  place  of  his  birth,  75;  his military  service,  75,  76.
Duncan,  Wilson,  son  of  Matthew Duncan;  an  infantry  captain;  sta- tioned at  Fort  Sidney,  Neb.,  8.
88
GOV.    jOSEPJI    DUNCAN.
Dunlap,  James,  member  of  commit- tee to  present  resolutions  to  Gov. Duncan's  faniilv,  jt,.
E
Early  settler?,  life  and  perils  of,  6.
Eaton,  Maj.  John  H.,  escorts  Jackson to  Washington,  19;  secretary  of  war under  Jack,-^on;  is  interviewed  by Duncan  a^  to  Illinois  appointments, 23,  24;  willing  to  appoint  lilinoisan to  office  at  Galena;  inclined  to  ap- point Jas.  M.  Duncan  to  office,  25.
Education,  Gov.  Duncan  calls  legis- lature's attention  to  subject  of,  32, 23;  legislature  of  1834-5  adjourns without  acting  upon  Duncan's  rec- ommendation concerning,  35;  Gov. Duncan  urges  higher,  35,  45;  his deep  interest  in,  54.
Edwards,  Ninian  \Virt,  prepares  bill for  school-law,  34.
Edwards-and-Adams  party,  Duncan believes  McLean's  election  not  due to,  20.
Elections,  public  officers  should  not seek  to  influence,  44.
EUii,  Rev.  J.  M.,  pastor  of  Presby- terian church  in  Jacksonville,  60; his  residence,  61.
Ellis,  Mrs.  Rev.  J.  M.,  a  guest  of Mrs.  Duncan,  and  why,  60,  61  ; half-sister  to  Mrs.  Conn,  60;  dies of  cholera,  61.
Elm  Grove,  Jacksonville,  Gov.  Dun- can dates  letters  from,  49,  53;  the name  of  Gov.  Duncan's  first  home in  Jacksonville,  59.
Emancipation,  gradual,  Gov.  Dun- can favors,  53.
Engelrnan,  George,  M.D.,  a  resident of  St.  Louis,  Mo. ;  his  tribute  to the  memory  of  Jos.  D,  Putnam,  80.
Erie,  I'enn.,  liritish  seek  destruction of  naval  preparations  at,  14.
Ewing,  \Vm.  l,ee  Donaldson,  acting lieutenant-governor;  occupies  exec- utive chair,  26.
Farrar,  Dr.  IJcnjamin,  Gov.  and  Mrs. Duncan  meet,  56.
Federal  government.  Gov.  Duncarj deplores  centralization  of  power in,  40.
Federalists,  Kinney  thinks  should  be put  out  of  office,  25.
Fergus  Printing  Company,  publishers of  "Martyrdom  of  Lovejoy,"  48 n.
Fifth  (U.-S.)  Cavalry,  Maj.  Thomas Duncan  appointed  lieut.- colonel of,  75,  76.
First  Dragoons,  U.S.A.,  Benj.  Dun- can Moore  captain  of,  7;  Matthew Duncan  captain  of,  8.
Ford,  Judge  Thomas,  elected  gov.  of Illinois;  his  majority,  47.
Fort  Burgin,  N.M.,  commanded  hy Capt,  Thomas  Duncan,  75.
Fort  Craig,  N.M.,  commanded  by Maj.  Thomas  Duncan,  75.
Fort  D.  A.  Russell,  \Vyoming,  Lieut. - Col.  Thos.  Duncan  stationed  at,  76.
Fort  Garland,  Col.,  constructed  and commanded  by  Capt.  Thos.  Dun- can, 75.
Fort  Laramie,  Wyoming,  Capt.  Thos. Duncan  takes  company  to,  75.
Fort  Leavenworth,  Kan.,  Capt.  Thos. Duncan  on  duty  at,  75.
Fort  Meigs,  siege  of,  raised,  12.
Fort  Mcpherson,  Neb.,  Lieut. -CoL Thos.  Duncan  stationed  at,  76.
Fort  Massachusetts,  N.M.,  com'ded by  Capt.  Thos.  Duncan,  75
Fort  Sidney,  Neb.,  Lieut. -Col.  Thos. Duncan  in  command  of,  76.
Fort  Stephenson,  Ohio,  description  of defence  of,  11-15;  American  troops in  rear  of;  Col.  Croghan  in  com- mand of,  1 1 ;  its  defenceless  condi- tion; orders  for  evacuation  of;  the determination  of  officers  to  delend; Col.  Wells  relieves  Col.  Croghan  in command  of,  12;  important  results of  defence  of,  14,  15;  known  as Lower  Sandusky;  newspai)er  repoi  t of  attack  on;  congress  rewards  the defenders  of,  15,  16;  Gov.  Duncan's -  -  gallant  conduct  at  defence  of,  1 5,  67.
Fort  Union,  N.M.,  Capt.  Thos.  Dun- can  with  his  regiment  at;  Coinan- ches  defeated  in  vicinity  of,  75-
Fort  Wise,  Col.,  Maj.  Tlios.  Duncan assigned  to,  75.
P^ountain  Bluff,   111.,  Duncan  family
INDEX.
89
remove  to,  iS;  residence  of  \Vm. Linn;  Mrs.  Duncan's  novel  experi- ence at,  56.
Fremont,  O.,  formerly  called  Lov/er Sandusky,  17.
Freedom  of  the  press  should  be  held sacred,  52.
Fulton,    ,  mention,  80.
G
Gadsbie's  Hotel,  Washington,  men- tion, 21.
C}alena,  Maj.  Eaton  willing  to  appoint lllinoisan  to  office  at,  25.
Garrard,  Capt.  William,  attached  to Kentucky  volunteers;  relates  inci- dent showing  Duncan's  modesty,  14
Gallagher,  Rev.  James,  pastor  of  the Presbyterian  church  in  Pisgah,  65.
Gibson,  Geo.,  meets  Duncan  at  presi- dent's dinner-party,  24.
Giddings,  Rev.  Salmon,  settles  at Quincy;  preaches  in  St.  Louis,  56.
Giliett,  Dr.  R.,  presides  at  public meeting  in  Jacksonville,  72.
Girty,  Simon,  burns  Col.  Wm.  Craw- ford at  the  stake,  10.
Goudy,  Ensley.  mention,  65.
Graham  [Richard?),  Duncan  wants to  be  Indian  agent  in  place  of,  24.
Graham,   Mrs.  Jsahclla,  mention,  56.
Gratiot,  Gen.  Charles,  accompanies Duncan  to  war  department;  friend- ly to  his  views,  23;  meets  Duncan at  president's  dinner-party,  24.
Gray,  Prof.  Asa,  his  tiibute  to  mem- ory of  Joseph  D.  Puniam,  79.
Green,  Duff,  Duncan  refuses  to  sup- port for  public  printer,  19;  Dun- can's criticisms  on,  19,  20;  his  in- fluence over  Jackson;  his  arrogance; directed  by  Jackson  to  correct  his statements,  20;  requests  appoint- ment from  secretary  of  war,  24.
Green,  Dr.   ,  a  resident  of  St.
Louis;  urged  by  Duff  Green  for appointment  in  Illinois,  24.
H
Hall's  Battery,  Maj.  Thomas  Duncan renders  conspicuous  service  in  sup- porting, 75.
Hamilton,  James,  probably  to  be  in Jackson's  cabinet,  20.
Hamtramck,  John  Francis,  jr.,  J,  M. Duncan  wants  to  be  appointed  In- dian agent  in  place  of,  24.
Hancock  County,  111.,  Mormons  settle in;  Mormon  population  of,  46.
Handy,    ,   of  Indiana;    Kinney's
advice  to,  25.
Plarrison,  Gen.  Wm.  Henry,  com'ds main  body  of  American  army,  ii; Croghan  disobeys;  removes  Crogh- an  from  command  at  Fort  Stephen- son, 12;  reinstates  same,  13;  arrives at  Fort  Stephenson  with  army,  14,
Hayne,  Robert  Y.,  to  be  in  Jackson's cabinet;  probably  to  be  secretary of  the  navy,  20.
Plenry,  Capt.  John,  addresses  public meeting  upon  the  services  of  Gov. Duncan;  member  of  committee  to draft  resolutions  eulogizing  Gov. Duncan,  72.
History,  should  be  accurate  and  im- partial, 5.
Hodges,  William,  secretary  of  public meeting  at  Jacksonville,  72.
Hook,  Cornelius,  member  of  commit- tee to  request  closing  of  business houses,  73.
Iberville,  La,,  Thomas  Duncan  killed at,  9,
Illinois,  Gov.  Duncan's  affection  for; same  honored  by,  6;  Gov.  Dun- can's early  attraction  toward;  his removal  to;  admitted  to  the  Union; Robert  K.  McLaughlin,  state  trecis- urer,  iS;  John  McLean,  senator from,  20 ;  Duncan's  views  as  to the  politicalappointments  in;  Maj. Campbell  to  be  appointed  superin- tendent of  lead-mines  in,  23;  Dun- can indignant  at  appointments  in; Eaton  willing  to  a[)poinl  citizen  of
-  .to  office  at  (ialena,  25;  three  con- gressmen ap['ortioned  to;  Gov. Duncan  elected  governor  of;  Reyn- olds' election  as  governor  of;  Dun- can succeeds  latter,  26 ;  political sentiment  tijward  VanBuren  in;  the convention  .system  introduced  into».
t>^
■90
GOV.   JOSEPH   DUNCAN.
27;  Joseph  Duncan  defeats  Wm. Kinney  for  governor  of.  28;  fertility of  its  soil;  Go\.  Duncan  predicts future  of,  33;  anathematized  in  the public  prints,  51  ;  Gov.  Duncan opposes  the  introduction  of  slavery into,  53;  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan cross  by  stage,  58;  Gov.  Duncan invests  in  real  estate  in  central,  63; a  new  state,  66,  67;  comparatively
■  distant  from  and  unknown  in  the East,  67;  represented  in  congress by  Joseph  Duncan,  55,  66;  Dr.  T. ^I.  Pos.t  visits  Gov.  Duncan  in,  68; Gov.  Duncan's  life  incorporated with,  71 ;  mention,  22.
Illinois  College,  S.  D.  Lockwood president  of  trustees  of;  Gov,  Dun- can prepares  resignation  from  the board  of  trustees  of,  53;  Natlianiel Coffin  treasurer  of,  54;  Gov.  Dun- can's liberality  toward,  54,  55;  his service  as  trustee  of,  55,  66;  Dr. Edward  IJeecher  a  trustee  of,  66; Dr.  T.  M.  Post  connected  with,  69; the  trustees  of  adopt  resolutions  on Gov,  Duncan's  death,  74.
Jllinois  Herald,  the  first  newspaper  in Illinois;  published  by  Matthew Duncan,  S;  sold  to  D,  P.  Cook  and Robert  Blackwell,  8.
Jllinois  Institution  for  the  Education of  Deaf  Mutes,  condition  of  its  loca- tion at  Jacksonville;  Gov.  Duncan raises  funds  to  purchase  site  for, and  is  its  first  president  of  board of  trustees,  55.
Illinois  J\iver,  Duncan  favors  steam- boat canil  between  Lake  Michigan and,  23,45;  Jackson  vetoes  appro- priation for  improving,  27;  men- tion, 23,  II.
Illinois-and-Michigan  Canal,  Duncan urges  location  of,  upon  Jackson's administration.  22,23;  '^"-^  favors making  it  a  ship-canal,  33,  38;  he also  favors  completion  of,  'i^'^,  40, 41;  legislature  authorizes  loan  to complete,  35;  Iegi.-.lature  of  1S34-5 adjourns  without  taking  action  con- cerning, 35,  43;  an  engrossing  sub- ject of  public  attention,  37,  48; should  be  a  national  highway,  38, 44;    report    of  the   commissioners
of,  transmitted,  40;  its  navigation should  be  free,  41,  44;  progressing satisfactorily ;  funds  in  hands  of commissioners  of,  44.
Inaugurations  of  Adams  and  Jackson contrasted;  iMncan  attends  latter. 21.
India,  mention,  67.
Indian  war,  Jllinois  the  se^^t  of  an,  67.
Indiana,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  cross by  stage,  58;  mention,  25.
Indians,  early  relations  between  the whites  and,  6;  see  also  Comanches.
Ingham,  Samuel  B. ,  mentioned  in connection  with  postmaster-gener- alship, 20.
Intemperance,  Duncan  discusses,  45.
Internal  improvements,  a  source  of patronage,  40;  Gov.  Duncan  op- poses public  n.iaintenance  of,  35, 36,  37,  39,  43;  IS'^iding  issue  in state  politics,  37,  48;  passage  of act  to  establish  system  of;  Gov. Duncan  vetoes  same;  same  again passed,  37;  the  governor  recom- mends repeal  of  same,  39,  40.
Iowa,  Maj.  Thomas  Duncan's  official (military)  command  in,  75.
Jackson,  President  Andrew,  his  arri- val in  Washington,  19;  Diincan calls  upon,  19,  20;  Duff  Green's influence  over;  rumors  as  to  his cabinet;  his  professed  policy  as  to removals,  20;  Duncan  attends  his inauguration;  the  inauguration  de- scribed, 21;  disgraceful  scenes  re- ported at  his  inaugural  reception; contrasted  with  Adams  by  Clay,  22; Duncan  urges  route  for  Illinois-and- Michigan  Canal  upon,  22,  23;  his attitude  as  to  Illinois  appointments, 23;  Duncan  dines  with,  24;  con- gratulated by  Kinney  on  appoint- ments, 25;  Reynolds'  adherence  to;
-- favors  VanlJuren  as  his  successor; Duncan  a  supporter  of;  the  latter's reasons  for  breaking  with,  27;  for- merly supported  by  Judge  White; Gov.  Duncan  supported  by  oppo- nents of;  on  good  terms  with  Gov. Duncan;  offers  him  an  office,  and
INDEX.
91
appoints  his  relatives  to  ofiice;  Gov. Duncan  denies  asking  favors  from, and  declares  his  faith  in  sincerity of,  28;  Crov.  Duncan  contrasts  Van Buren  with;  too  old  for  executive office ;  his  noble  qualities ;  Van Buren's  intrigues  against,  29;  Gov. Duncan's  intimacy  with ;  pledges neglected,  30 ;  arraigned  for  his policy  toward  U.-S.  B'k,  30,  31 ,38.
Jackson  Co.,  III.,  the  Duncan  family settle  in,  18.
Jackson  democrats,  their  suspicion  of Gov.  ]\eynolds,  27 ;  divide  on  a question  of  Van  Buren's  support,  27, 28;  gain  adherence  from  Clay's  sup- porters; fusion  between  whigs  and; Gov.  Duncan  draws  support  from, 28;  Joseph  Duncan  supported  for congress  by,  29,  30.
Jacksonville,  111.,  Gen.  Jas.  M.  Dun- can a  merchant  at,  8;  the  residence of  Gov.  Duncan,  47;  (}ov.  Duncan dates  letter  from,  49;  citizens  of donate  site  for  Illinois  Institution for  Education  of  Deaf  Mutes,  55; Mrs.  Duncan's  reminiscences  of  lier early  life  in,  56;  Mrs.  Duncan's  first visit  to,  57;  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan return  to,  58;  Mrs.  Duncan  returns to;  first  Presbyterian  church  in; building  committee;  subscribers  to fund  for  building;  amount  raised; its  first  pastor.  Go;  described;  com- position of  choir  of,  61;  Ciov.  Dun- can unites  with  I'resbyterian  church at,  62;  invests  in  real  estate  in,  and conveys  property  near,  in  trust,  63; Dr.  T.  ^I.  Post  visits  Gov.  Duncan at,  68;  resolutions  adopted  'by  citi- zens of,  upon  (iov,  Duncan's  death, 72;  Jose{)h  Duncan  Putnani  born at,  76;  mention,  19,  54,  58.
Jetferson  Barracks,  Mo.,  Capt.  Thos. Duncan  ordered  to,  75.
Jessup,  Thomas  S. ,  meets  Duncan  at president's  dinner-party,  24.
Johnson,  Lieut.  P.enj.,  aids  in  defence of  Fort  Stephenson ;  assisted  by Ensign  Duncan,  13;  presented  with sword  by  vote  of  Congress,  15,  16.
Johnson,  Lieut.  Richard  ?>I.,  calls upon  President-elect  Jackson  with Duncan,  20.
Kane,  Elias  Kent,  confers  with  Dun- can and  McLean  as  to  111.  appoint- ments; differs  with  the  latter  as  to removals,  22.
Kaskaskia,  111.,  Matthew  Duncan edits  first  111.  newspaper  at,  8;  the capital  of  Illinois,  18:  Gov.  and Mrs.  Duncan  meet  friends  at,  56; Thomas  Duncan  born  in,  75.
Kentucky,  Gov.  Duncan  a  native  of; description  of  life  in,  6;  Maj.  Dun- can an  early  settler  oi",  7;  war  spirit in,  in  1812,  9;  Gov.  (then  Lieut.) Duncan  returns  to  at  close  of  war, 18;  Stale  University,  Transylvania College  merged  into,  8 ;  troops compared  to  Spartans,  10.
Kerr,  James,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan remain  at  house  of,  59;  a  mem.ber of  Presbyterian  church  building- committee;  subscribes  to  fund  for erection  of  same,  60.
King,  Jos.  O.,  member  of  committee to  request  the  closing  of  business houses,  73.
Kinney,  Lieut. -Gov.  Wm.,  his  inter- view with  Gov.  Duncan  as  to  ap- pointments, 22 ;  calls  with  Gov. Duncan  to  see  Jackson,  22,  25  ; anxious  for  West's  appointment,  24, 25;  suggests  to  Duncan  to  recom- mend appointment  of  the  latter's brother;  wants  Duncan  to  recom- mend Illinoisan  for  office  at  Galena; congratulates  the  president  on  his appointments;  urges  the  removal  of Pederalists,  25 ;  a  man  of  great popularity;  Duncan's  majority  for governor  over,  26;  supported  by friends  of  Van  Buren;  defeated  for gov'r  by  Duncan,  28;  mention,  24.
Kirby,  Mrs.  (Edward  P.)  Julia  (Dun-
•    can),  mention,  66.
Kirby,  Mrs.  (Rev.)  Wm.,  see  Wol- cott,  Hannah.
L.'ifayette,  Gen.,  mention,  21. Lake  Erie,  Duncan's  perilous  cross- ing of,  18;  mention,  23. Lake  Michigan,  Duncan  favors  steam-
92
GOV.  JOSEPH  DU^x•A^^
boat  canal  between  Illinois  River and,  23,  45;  mention,  33.
I.atter-Day  Saints,  see  Mormons.
Leeper,  John,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan stop  at  house  of,  58.
Legislature,  of  1834-5  adjourns  with- out acting  upon  the  canal  question; reconvene;  authorizes  loan  to  com- plete the  building  of  canal,  35;  of 1836-7,  synopsis  of  Gov.  Duncan's message  to,  36,  37;  same  cited  in full,  38,  et  seq.:  should  instruct  sen- ators to  vote  to  curtail  executive patronage,  43.
Lexington,' Ky.,  Transylvania  College located  at,  S;  mention,  9.
Linn,  Wm.,  Gov.  Duncans  brother- in-law,  9,  63;  his  character,  9;  a defaulter,  9,  63;  commissioned  to present  sword  to  Gov.  Duncan,  16; ins  defalcation  causes  loss  to  Gov. Duncan,  63.
Linn,  Mrs.  (Wm.)  Tolly  Ann  (Dun- can), a  sister  of  Gov.  Duncan;  re- sides at  Fountain  Bluff;  meets  Gov. Duncan  and  bride,  56.
Literature,  Gov.  Duncan  urges  in- struction in  higher  branches  of,  35.
Loccwood,  Judge  Sam.  Drake,  presi- dent of  trustees  of  Illinois  College; Gov.  Duncan  addresses  letter  to, 53;  disclaims  the  teaching  of  Abo- lition principles  in  111.  College,  54; sells  land  for  .-^ite  of  Institution  for the  Education  of  Deaf  Mutes,  55; a  member  of  church  building-com- mittee, 60;  proentcd  (with  Ins  wife) to  Daniel  W  ebster,  62 ;  mention,  65.
Lockwood,  Mrs.  (Judge)  S.  D.,  choir singer  at  Jacksonville,  61.
Lovejoy,  Rev.  Elijah  Parish,  mur- dered in  the  Alton  riots;  his  judg- ment questii^ned,  48;  driven  from St.  Louis,  his  presses  destroyed  at Alton,  51 ;  Gov.  Duncan's  criticism of»  49)  51 )  not  a  martyr,  51,  52.
LosOlmitas,  'lex  ,  C  apt.  'Jho';.  Dun- can rejoins  his  comi)any  ai,  75.
Lynch,  E,  P.,  mention,  80,  81.
M
McClusky,  John,  driver  for  Gov.  Dun- can, 62.
McConnel,  Murray,  offers  his  office  to Gov.  Duncan  as  a  lodging  -  place  ; Mrs.  Duncan's  experience  therein, 58;  admits  existence  of  scheme  to break  down  Duncan,  64;  member of  committee  to  draft  resolutions eulogizing  (}ov.  Duncan,  72.
Mc Knight  [Thomas  ?j,  Duncan  urges retention  of,  24.
McLaughin,  Robert  K. ,  an  uncle  of Gov.  Duncan ;  state  treasurer  of Illinois,   18.
McLean,  John,  a  senator  from  III; mentioned  in  connection  with  sec- retaryship of  war;  Duncan  disbe- lieves rumors  as  to  methods  of  his election,  20;  confers  with  Duncan and  Kane  as  to  Illinois  appoint- ments; opposes  removals  except  for cause,  22.
Macomb,  Gen.  Alex.,  meets  Duncan at  president's  dinner-party,  24.
Maiden,  Canada,  Gov.  (then  Lieut.) Duncan  leads  force  northeast  of; and  crosses  to  Sandusky  from,  18.
Mansion  House,  Jacksonville,  former- ly owned  by  Mrs.  Duncan,  63.
Martyrdom,  Lovejoy  not  [?J  entitled to  distinction  of,  52.
"  Martyrdom  of  Lovejoy,"  cited,  48n.
Mather,  Col.  Thomas  S.,  drives  (Jov. and  Mrs.  Duncan  to  Carlyle,  56.
Meek,  Lieut.  John,  aids  in  defence  of Ft.  Stephenson,  13;  presented  with sword  by  vote  of  congress,  16.
Mexican  War,  Renj.  Duncan  Moore killed  in,  7.
Miami,  O.,  letter  written  from  camp at,  9.
Michigan,  Maj.  Campbell  to  be  ap- pointed sup't  of  lead-mines  in,  23: Gov.  and  Mrs,  Duncan  cross  by stage,  58.
Michigan  City,  Ind,,  Gov.  Duncaii invests  in  real  estate  in,  63.
Militia,  Gov.  Duncan  favors  organi- zation of,  45.
tMirror,  the,  edited  by  Matthew  Dun- can, 8.
Mississippi  River,  the  Duncan  family settle  upon,  18;  Maj,  Campbell  to be  aj)pointed  sup't  of  lead-mines  on upper,  23;  crossed  by  the  Indians under  Black  Hawk,  26;  President
INDEX.
93
Jaclcson  vetoes  appropriation  for improving,  2~;  mention,  44.
Missouri,  Mormons  expelled  from,  46; mention,  24.
Moore,  Capt.  Benjamin,  raairies  Mrs. Duncan,  sr. ;  his  death,  7.
Moore,  Mrs.  Capt.  Benj.,  Gov.  Dun- can's mother;  meets  Gov.  Duncan and  bride,  56;  remains  vdth  Mrs. Duncan  through  the  "deep  snow," 61.
Moore,  Benj.  Duncan,  half-brother  of Gov.  Duncan;  brief  sketch  of,  7.
Moore,  Matthew,  only  son  of  Benj. Duncan  Moore,  7.
Morgan  House,  Jacksonville,  meeting held  at  to  eulogize  Gov.  Duncan's memory,  72.
Mormons,  are  driven  from  Missouri; found  city  of  Xauvoo;  time-serving policy  of  politicians  toward;  obtain valuable  charter  for  Xauvoo;  esti- mated strength  of,  46;  the  political affiliations  of,  46,  47;  danger  inci- dent to  their  political  support;  anti- Mormon  feeling  fostered  by  Dun- can's friends;  support  Ford,  47.
Mounted  Rifles,  the,  Thos.  Duncan lieutenant  in;  afterward  known  as 'Jhird  Cavalry,  75.
N
Nash,  Mary,  niece  of  Judge  Lock- wood;  presented  to  i)aniel  Web- ster; married  to  J.  T.  Stuart,  62.
Nashville,  'Jenn.,  Thomas  Duncan practises  law  at,  9;  Lt.-Col.  Thos. Duncan  assumes  command  at,  76.
National  issues,  first  introduced  into state  politics,  27;  state  elections hased  on,  28.
Nauvoo,  111.,  founded  by  Mormons; valuable  charter  obtained  for;  Sny- der and  Douglas  instrumental  in oljtaining,  46
Navajo  expedition,  Capt.  Thos.  Dun- can participates  in,  75.
Newspaper  press,  shouki  not  be  con- ducted by  public  officers,  44;  con- trast between  pa>t  and  present  of,
New  York,  Gov.  Duncan  sells  bonds at,  44;  mention,  27,  55,  56,  58,  67.
OTallon,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John,  Gov. and  Mrs.  Duncan  meet,  56.
Oftice-hunters,  Washington  full  of,  22.
Ogle,  Gen.  Alex.,  attracts  attention in  Washington,  20.
Ohio,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  cross by  stage,  58.
Ordinance  of  1787,  Gov.  Duncan  re- fers to,  45.
Park  House,  Jacksonville,  formerly owned  by  Mrs.  Duncan,  6^.
Paris,  Ky.,  Gov.  Duncan  born  at,  7; his  home  at  age  of  17,  9.
Party  feeling,  should  be  subordinated to  patriotism,  31.
Patronage,  state  aid  to  internal  im- provements fosters;  its  employment a  menace  to  free  government,  40; restrictions  should  be  placed  on executive,  41,  43.
Pell,  Gilbert  W.,  Duncan  reconv mends  for  appointment;  his  other recommendations,  22.
Perry,  Carlton,  choir-leader  in  Jack- sonville church,  61.
Perry,  Mrs.  (Carlton)  E.  (Wolcott), sings  in  Jacksonville  choir,  01.
Perry's  {Com.  Oliver  Hazard  1  victory on  Lake  Erie,  mentioned,  14.
Personal  liberty,  it  should  ije  Jield sacred,  52.
Philips,  Lieut.  William,  crosses  Lake Erie  with  Duncan  in  open  boat,  iS.
Pisgah,  111.,  Gov.  Duncan  unites  with church  in,  65.
Platte,  Department  of  the,  Lt  -Col. Thomas  Duncan  ordered  to  h eld- service  in  the,  76.
Polk,  James  K.,  travels  with  Gov. and  Mrs.  Duncan;  the  lattcr's  e.-5ti- mate  of,  56.
"Pope's   Digest,"   Matthew    Duncan
-    publishes  first  volume  of,  8.
Posey,  W.  C,  a  member  of  lYesby- terian  church  b'ld'g-committee,  60.
Post,  Rev.  Reuben,  marries  (}o\. Duncan  and  Elizabeth  C.  Smitti, 56;  his  nephew  visits  Duncan,  61 ; pastor  of  First  Presbyter'n  Cliurch
.,.■,  \
94
GOV.    JOSEPH      DUNX'AX.
at  Washington ;  chaplain  of  con- gress, 67.
Post,  Rev.  Truman  M.,  nephew  of Rev.  Reuben  Post;  a  giiest  of  Gov. and  Mrs.  Duncan;  his.  appreciation of  his  entertainirient,  61;  presented (with  his  wife)  to  Daniel  Webster, 62;  letter  from,  detaihn<T  reminis- cences of  Gov.  Duncan,  66-71;  his impressions  of  Daniel  \\  ebster : connected  with  Illinois  College,  69; describes  Duncan's  death,  69,  70.
Pratt,  W.  II.,  mention,  79.
President  of  United  States,  his  pat- ronage should  be  curtailed,  43;  he should  not  appoint  members  of  con- gress to  ofhce,  44.
Preston,  Gen,,  should  be  Proctor.
Preston,  C.  H.,  men^.ber  of  commit- tee of  Davenport  Aca.iemy  ot  .Sci- ences, 80,  81.
Preston,  Mr.  Wm.  C.,  of  coramitlee  on military  affairs,  reports  resolution relative  to  defence  of  Fort  Stephen- son, 15.
Proctor,  Gen.  Henry,  approaching American  stations  on  the  Sandusky, 12;  demands  the  surrender  of  Fort Stephenson,  13;  see  Gen.  Preston.
•Proscription,  Duncan  opposed  to,  32.
Protestant  churches,  none  in  St. Louis; service  where  held,  5(1.
Public  lands,  Joseph  Duncan  opposes state  claims  to,  31.
Public  officers,  should  be  removed only  for  cause,  32,  41,  42,  43;  nec- essarily politicians,  43;  sliould  be prohibited  from  seeking  to  influ- ence votes,  44.
Putnam,  Chas.  K.,  married  to  Mary L.  Duncan;  a  resident  of  Daven- port, Iowa,  66.
Putnam,  Joseph  Duncan,  a  grandson of  Ciov.  Duncan,  69;  -sketch  of  his life,  76,  f/  9tr/. ;  his  birth  and  death, 76;  a  scientist,  76,  77;  list  of  his publications,  77,  78;  tribute  to  from Profs.  S.  v.  P)aird  and  Asa  F.  Gray, 79;  from  Dr.  Geo.  F.ngelman,  80; from  Prof.  S.  H.  Scudder,  81;  from C.  V.  Riley,  82.
Putnam,  Mrs,  (George  E. )  Mary  L. (Duncan),  mention,  66;  mother  of eleven  children,  76.
Quincy,  III.,  Rev.  S.  Giddings  settled at,  56.
R
Reed,  Dr.  M.  M.  L.,  successfully  at- tends Gov.  Duncan's  children;  Nirs. Duncan's  tribute  to  his  skill,  60.
Reform,  Gen.  Jackson's  pledges  of, neglected,  30.
Removal  of  public  ofticers  discussed,
41-43-
Republicans,  Kiuney  thinks  should be  appointed  to  office,  25.
Republican- River  Expedition,  com- manded by  Lieut. -Col.  Thos.  Dan- can,  76.
Retrenchment,  recommended  by  con- gressional committee:  Gen.  Jack- son's pledges  of,  neglected,  30.
Reynolds,  Gov.  John,  succeeds  Slade and  Duncan  in  congress;  appoints Joseph  Duncan  brigadier-general; his  election  as  governor;  his  con- versation with  (inv.  Duncan  as  to interchange  of  offices,  26;  his  ad- herence to  Jackson,  27.
Richmond,  Va.,  mention,  67.
Riley,  C.  V.,  L'.-S.  entomologist;  his tribute  to  the  memory  of  Joseph  D. Putnam,  82.
Rives,  Senator  Wm.  C,  mention.  67.
Rock  Island,  111.,  expedition  against Black  Hawk  marches  to,  26.
Rockwell,  Dennis,  donates  land  for Presbyterian  church  in  Jackson- ville, 60,
Russellville,  Ky.,  Matthew  Duncan edits  paper  at,  8.
S
i  St.  Clair  Co.,  111.,  mention,  46.
!  St.  Lawrence  River,  mention,  44.
I  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Lovejoy  driven  from,
|-  -    51;  Protestant  services,  where  held
i  in,   56;  visited  by  Gov.   and   Mrs.
j  Duncan,  56,  57;  (^eorge  Engehnan
I  dates  letter  from,  80;  mention,  2.?,
I  66,  80.
I  Sandusky  [Lower],  O.,   subsequently
'  called   Fremont,    17;  Dujican   and
INDEX.
95.
Phillips  cross  from  ^lalden  to,  i8; Gov.  Duncan  invests  in  real  estate in,  63.
Sandusky  River,  Proctor  approaching American  stations  on,  12.
San  Pascual,  Cal.,  Benjamin  l^uncan Moore  killed  at,  7.
Satanta,  leader  of  the  Comanches,  75.
School-law,  Jos.  Duncan  introduces in  state  senate  bill  for,  19;  X.  W, Edwards  prepares  bill  for,  34.
Scudder,  Samuel  ii.,  of  Cambridge, Mass.,  his  tribute  to  the  memory  of Joseph  D.  Putnam,  81,  82.
Senecatown,  Ohio,  Croghan  ordered to  fall  back  upon,  12.
Seventeenth  Infantry,  Gen.  James  M. Duncan  a  captain  in,  8;  Gov.  Jos. Duncan  an  ensign  in,  9;  privations of,  10.
Shawneetown,  111.,  Gov.  Duncan  op- poses increase  in  capital  of  bank at,  39-
Shelbyville,  HI.,  Matlliew  Duncan  in business  at,  S.
Shipp,  Ensign  Edmund  (jr.),  aids  in defence  of  Port  Stephenson,  13; presented  with  sword  by  vote  of congress,  16.
.Short,  Eieut. -Col.   ,  leads  portion
of  attack  on  Port  Stephenson,  13; see  Street.
Shrover,  Philip,  letter  to  Gov.  Dun- can from,  9,  10.
Slade,  Charie-,  recommended  by  Illi- nois congressmen  for  appointment as  marshal,  22;  elected  to  congress; dies;  succeeded  by  Gov.  Reynolds, 26.
Slavery,  (iov.  I.)uncan  opposes  dis- cussion of,  50;  a  moral  and  politi- cal evil,  52;  Gov.  Duncan's  disap- proval of,  52,  53;  Gov.  I^uncan opposes  introduction  of  into  111.,  53.
Slave-holder.*;,  their  consent  nece.=sary to  constitutional  Abolition,  50; their  opposition  to  Aljolition,  51.
Smith,  Dr.  A.,  takes  part  in  public meeting  at  Jacksonville,  72;  mem- ber of  committee  to  y)rescnt  resolu- tions to  Cjov.  Duncan's  family,  73.
Smith,  David  A.,  sells  land  for  site for  the  Illinois  Institution  for  the Education  of  Deaf  Mute.s,  55;  sends
funeral  sermon  on  Gov.  L")uncan  to- his  widow,  74.
Smith,  Elizabeth  Caldwell,  daughter of  James  R.  Smith ;  meets  Gov. Duncan,  55;  marries  same,  56.
Smith,  Isabella,  the  granddaughter  of Mrs.  Isabella  Graham,  bridesmaid to  Mrs.  Gov.  Duncan,  56.
Smith,  James  R.,  retired  banker  and. merchant,  55;  father-in-law' of  M. St.  C.    Clarke  and    Gov.    Duncan, 55-  63.
Smith,  Joseph,  orders  Mormons  to support  Snyder,  46.
Smith,  Mary  B.,  bridesmaid  to  Mrs. Gov.  Duncan,  56.
Smith,  Gen.  Phos.  A.,  mention,  24.
Snow,  Mrs.  (Daniel)  Jane  (Duncan), a  daughter  of  Gen.  ames  M.  Dun- can, 8.
Snyder,  Adam  Wilson,  state  senator in  1 840;  aids  in  securing  charter of  Nanvoo;  democratic  candidate for  governor  in  1S42;  Smith  orders Mormons  to  support,  46;  Mormon support  dangerous  to;  dies,  47.
Society,  in  111.,  unformed  in  1837,  48.
Spartans,  Kentucky  troops  compared to,  10.
Springfield,  III,  Gen.  James  M.  Dun- can removes  to,  8;  mention,  62,  66.
Stac}',  Matthew,  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Dun-
\  can  occupy  room  in  house  of,  58; Mrs.  Duncan's  appreciation  of  his kindness,  59.
State  aid,  should  be  extended  to  pri- vate enterprise,  how,  40,  43.
State  Bank  of  Illinois,  Gov.  Duncan opposed  to  charter  of,  34,  39;  the governor  recommends  increase  in capital  stock  of,  36;  subsequently opposes  increase  in  capital  of,  39; ^anal-funds  deposited  in,  44.
State  banks,  multiplication  of,  38.
Stevenson,  Elliot,  subscribes  to  fund for  erectin;^  Presliyter'n  church,  60.
.Stoddard,  Jane,  a  sifter  of  Mrs.  Bell;
-  married  to  \Vm.  Duncan,  9. I   Street,  Eieut. -Col.,  .should  be  Short.
Stuart,  John  Todd,  of  Springfield, admires  Gov.  Duncan's  appearance, 58;  is  married  to  Mary  Nash,  62; author  acknowledges  the  kindness of,  66.
o?
96
GOV.   JOSEPH    DUNCAN.
Sturtevant,  Rev.  J.  M.,  Gov.  Duncan
conveys  property   to   in   trust,   6^;
connected    with    Illinois    College ;
preaches  I)un.can's  funeral  sermon;
prepares    re?o!utions    on    death    of
same,  74. Surveys,  Ciov.  Duncan  favors  minera-
logical  and  agricultural,  45.
Tanner,  Henry,  "jNIartyrdom  of  Love- joy, "  by,  cited,  48  n.
Tariff,  the,  a  party  issue;  Gov.  Dan- can's  views  on,  32.
Taxation,  Gov.  Duncan's  views  on, 32.
Taylor,  Capt.  Zachury,  J3uncan  lias interview  with,  20.
Tazewell,  Littleton  W.,  Duncan  finds with  Jackson,  19;  latter's  rumored choice  for  secretary  of  state,  20.
Temperance,  Gov.  Duncan's  interest and  liberality  in  cause  of,  54.
Tennessee,  Maj.  Campbell  a  resident of;  citizens  of,  should  not  be  ap- pointed to  office  in  Illinois,  23,  and Duncan  opposes  their  appointment, 25;  Gen.  Jackson's  letter  to  legis- lature of,  30;  mention,  28.
Texas,  Capt.  Thos.  Duncan  on  duty
in.  75-     .  ,
'Ihames  River  (Canada),  Gov.  (then Lieut.)  Duncan  leads  troops  be- yond head  of,  18.
Third  Cavalry,  formerly  "Mounted Rides,"  Thos.  Duncan  lieutenant in,  75.
Thomas,  Lieut.  John  H.,  to  be  suc- ceeded by  army  officer,  24.
Thomas,  Judge  \Vm.,  his  estimate  of Wm.  Lmn,  9;  appointed  adminis- trator of  Gov.  Duncan's  estate;  en- deavors to  effect  compromise  v/ith administration,  64,
Towson,  Col.  Nathan,  meets  i^'uncan al  president's  dinner-party,  24.
1  ransylvania  College,  Gen.  James  M, Duncan  a  graduate  of,  8;  'Ihomas Duncan  a  gra  Ijale  of,  8,  9;  merged in  Kentucky  .State  University,  8.
U
United    States,    the,    should    charter
bank  to  act  as  fiscal  agent  of  the government,  32. U.-S.  Bank,  Jackson  suspends,  27.
Val  Verde,  N.M.,  Maj.  Thos.  Dun- can com'ds  cavalry  at  battle  of,  75.
VanBuren,  Martin,  probably  to  be  in Jackson's  cabinet,  20;  favored  l)y Jackson  as  latter's  successor;  politi- cal sentiment  in  Illinois  toward,  27; prominent  democrats  opposed  to election  of;  Judge  White  favored  as opponent  of;  his  friends  introduce convention  system  into  111. ;  Gov. Duncan's  hostility  to ;  his  oppo- nents support  Duncan;  his  friends support  Wm.  Kinney;  Gov.  Dun- can's personal  sentiments  toward; latter  denies  asking  favors  from,  28; his  intrigues  to  secure  Jackson's confidence;  moulds  course  of  lat- ter's administration;  his  extrava- gant and  ambitious  policy,  29;  ex- travagant expenditures  under;  per- mits plunder  of  treasury;  appoints defaulters  to  office;  not  a  demo- crat, 30.
VanBuren  party,  Duncan  criticises,  32
Vandalia,  111.,  Cren.  J  as.  M,  Duncan settles  at,  8;  Wm.  Linn,  receiver of  public  moneys  at,  9;  Gov.  Dun- can dates  letter  from,  65;  Lieut. Thos.  Duncan  employed  on  recruit- ing service  at,  75;  mention,  38,  56.
Vera  Cruz,  Mex.,  Lieut.  Thos.  Dun- can assigned  a  position  in  line  of investment  of,  75.
Varnum,  John,  member  of  congress; at  president's  dinner-party,  2\.
Vinton,  Lieut.  [Francis?,  groomsman to  Gov.  Duncan,  56.
Virginia,  Maj.  Duncan  removes  from, 7;  Duncan  opposes  appointment  of citizens  of  to  office  in  Illinois,  25; mention,  67.
Vot€s,  public  officers  should  not  seek to  inlluencc,  44.
W
Wabash  River,  Pres't  Jackson  vetoes apptopriation  for  improving,  27.
INDEX.
97
Warburton,  Col.  ■   ■,  his  r.ttaok  on
Fort  Stephenson  repulsed,  14.
Warren,  Col.  William  Ix.  member  of ccmmittee  to  drait  reiolution.s  eulo- gizing Gov.  Duncan,  72;  member of  committee  to  present  resolutions to  Gov.  Duncan's  family,  73,
Washington,  D.  C,  Gen.  Thos.  Dun- can dies  at.  S;  President-elect  Jack- son arrives  at.  19;  Gov.  Duncan anxious  to  leave,  22;  Gov.  Dun- can's stay  in,  5S;  Gov.  and  ]\Irs. Duncan  return  to,  5S,  62;  Dr,  Tru- man Post  meets  Gov.  and  Mrs. Duncan  at,  66;  Rev.  Reuben  Post pastor  of  church  in,  67;  S.  F.  Baird dates  letter  from,  79;  C.  V.  Riley dates  letter  from,  Sz;  mention,  30, 55,  58,  62,  64.
Webster,  Daniel,  Gov,  Duncan  gives barbecue  in  honor  of;  his  eloquence; holds  reception  at  Gov.  Duncan's house,  62;  Dr.  T.  M.  Post's  im- pressions of,  69.
Wells,  Col.  Samuel,  supersedes  Cro- ghan  at  Fort  Stephenson,  12.
West.  Emanuel  ],,  his  interview  with Gov.  Duncan  as  to  appointments; recommended  by  Gov,  Duncan  for diplomatic  appointment,  22 ;  rec- ommended for  an  appointment  as c/iar^'-c  if  aff'arrts:  why  Jackson  de- clines to  appoint,  24,
Wheeling,  \"a. ,  mention,  56.
Whigs,  the.  Gov.  Duncan's  apprehen- sions as  to  organization  of,  J2;  see also  Adams-and-Clay.
White.  Judge  Hugh  Lawson,  a  citizen of  Tennessee;  favored  as  an  oppo- nent of  VanBuren;  formerly  a  sup- porter of  Jackson,  2S.
Wight,  Col.  A.  G.  S.,  Duncan  rec- ommends appointment  of,  24.
Wilkinson,  Mrs.  John  P.,  choir->inger at  Jacksonville,  61.
Williams  College,  mention,  56.
Wolcott,  Miss  E.,  choir- singer  at Jacksonville;  afterward  Mrs.  Perry, 61.
Wolcott,  Hannah,  choir -singer  at Jacksonville;  afterward  Mrs.  (Rev.) Wm,  Kirby,  61.
J
FERGUS    PRINTING    COMPANY,    CHICAGO.
LAST  WORDS  IN  THE  PULPIT.
.. c.  C.  .......  ->  lamous  Sermons  on  I.  Thp:  Church — Its  Past;   IL    Tin:  ■<.-.
Its  Pkesext;  111.  The  Chijrck— Its  Futurk:  IV.  A  Sermon  on  The  Mastekv  of  Love: His  Fasfwelt,  to  the  PuLri t.  Aj.^o.  a  fine  Carboa  Ponrait  of  Mr.  Mi!n.  These  Sernioos  while in  composition  are  pleasing  and  ;c?apr.ic  in  style,  s\ist.aining  the  reader's  atlentioQ  from  first,  to  last, of  truth  should  re:td  them  for  the  purpose  of  learning  the  p-ositiou  of  the  School  to  '.vhicli  Mr.  Mib and  as  these  Sermons  resulted  iii  his  e.xclusioti  fro»'  the  Pn//>{t  oi  a.  Unitarian. clnirch  (Unity Chicago),  they  may  be  regarded  as  a  kind  cf  theological  landmark,      PajTcs  88;  Svo.     1882.
Paper,  50  cents.   .  Cloth,
The  Strength  "and  Weakness  of  the  Church.     An  Address  by  Geo,  C,  jNIiln.     I.'
?.t  a  Liberal  Convention  at  Watkin's  Glen,  N.Y.,  Ai::^o-t  27,  1S82,     Svo.     Paper,  Price,
Cradles  and    Foothghts :     Or  the  Church  and    the  Theatre  as    Friendly    For-:
lecture  delivered  by  Cso.  C.  Milx,  Scpi.  23d,  1SS3,  at  J  (■..■oley's  Theatre,  Chicago.     Svo.     Fnper.
1-  betc^g^; ■  C!(urch,
75  ceuis.
eiivere^i 35  cents.
:es.     A Reception  to  the   Settlers  of  Chicago,  prior  to  1S40,  by  the  Calume'L'  Club,  May  27,
1879.  •Containing  Club  Members'  "Names;  Origin  of  Reception;  Record  of  Old  Settlers  invited;  Reception; Sp-'eches  of  Rev.  Stepbien  R,  Heg:g.'^,  Gen  Henry  Strong,  E.x.-Chief-Justice  Johi)  Dean  Caton,  Judge  Her.;ry W.  Elodgett.  Judee  James  Grant,  Hon.  John  Wentworih,  Judge  Grant  Goodrich,  Hun.  J.  Young  Scinmion. and  Hon.  Wm.  Eross;  Table.s  shoving  places  of  birth,  year  of  arrival,  and  age  of  those  who  attended  a;>c', signed  Rcji'rLer;  Appendix  with  ItMers  from  John  Watkins,  Norman  K.  Towner,  Rev.  Flavel  Basconv  Maj.- G:a,  David  Hunter,  Judge  Ebeneztr  Peck,  Rev.  Jereniiiih  Porter,  and  the  na.nies  from  whom  brief  lett  .rr. of  regret  were  received;  Extracts  from  Chicago  Tribune  and  Mveniiig  Jonrual;  and  Regi.'?.ter  of  Old Scitlers;  with  name,  date  of  arrival,  birthplace^  age,  and  present  address.  Compiled  by  Hon.  Jo;r: Wextwop.th.      Pp.  90;  Svo.       tSvn.  Price,  50  cents.
FERGUS'  HISTORICAL  SERIES  -Cositiiiiied  fro^n  last  pagoi
IS. Cicago  River- and -Karbor  Convention; '  July  5,  6,  and  7,  i'547.  An  Account  of  its  Origin  and Proceedings,  by  Wm.  Moslev  H.m.l  (portrait),  JOH.v We.nt\\ort}{,  S.=v.:\i'l  Lisle  Smith.  IL-sace  Gkee- LKY,  Thurlo'-v  V/eed:  and  a  List  of  Delegates;  to- gether -with  Statistics  concerning  Chicago,  by  Jesse h.  Tho.m.as  and  J.^mes  L.  Barton.  Compiled  by Robert  Fekgls.     Pp.  ?o8;  8vo.     1SS2.     Price,  $1.
30.
Reminiscences   of   Early  Chicago  (1833). By  Ch.^kles  Cr.EAVEK.    Pp.  52;  iv-j.    1002.    25  cis.
A  Winter  in  the  West.     By  Cha.5.  Fenno
HoFK.\SAX  <p.".tr„lt)._  London,  1835.      Reprint,  with ivo.      1 8^2.     Price,  50c.
.'idditionai  N.-t-js.
M  \  .
John  Dean   Caton,  LL. D.,  e.K-Chief-Justice
f/f  liiinois,    Biugrap'iical  Sketch  cf     Portrait.      By
Robert  FKKC.rs      Pp.  48;  Svo.  lES.'.      Price  250.
Recollections  of  Early  Chica:^o  and  the Illinois  Bar.  l;y  Hon.  I'^aac  N.  Ak:co!.u.  Read Tuc-'day  E\ci;,r_-.  June  10,  i8<!o.
Recollections  of  the  Bench  and  Bar  of  Central Illtnois.  Bv  Ho-.i.  I  a.mes  C  Co.vkltxo,  of  Spring- field.    Read  Jan.  12."  1881.
The  Lawyer  as  a  Pioneer.  By  Hon.  Thomas H<;\y.ii  lj>crtr;  it).  Read  at  Fairbank  Hall.  Thurs- day Lveninj,'.  i-b.  10,  i83i.  Pp  108:  8vo.  1882,  75c. Bar-.A,sscciatio?i  Edition,  l^cyal  8vo.,  %\^
Early  Illinois    Railroads:    A   Paper,   read
before  the  Ciu'.  IL.-t.  Soc'y,  Tue^d  ly  t.'.v;ning,  Feb. 70,  i?.8j.  };•,  Vv\!  ,K.  AcKPP.M.'.N,  j.r•:■^iuent  of  the 111. -Cent.  K  r  -W.ics  by  Hon.  JoHr<  Wi;.NTWORTH. Also  an  App::  j'i  .  with  the  Breese- Douglas  Corres- poiidtnce  ou  t^-:  Inception  and  Uri;:;tu  of  the  111.- (-cnt.  k.  R.,  a.'.d  the  Origin  of  Name-  of  Stations on  the  IlL-Ces-r.  P„R.     Pp.  J74;  gva   1884.  $x.
Hon.  Jolin  V/entworth's  Congressional Rcminiscen"  '_<-;.     Sketches  of  Joht.  QLinicy  Adams,
Thomas  H.  Benton,  John  C.  Calhoun,  Henry  Clay, and  Daniel  Webster.  An  Address  read  before  the Ciiicago  Historir.d  Society,  at  Central  2.IuT(C-Hal!, Thursday  Eve.,  Uarch  16,  1082.  With  an  Appeiici;-. and  a  complete  Index.     Pp.  101;  Svo.    xSSs.     750':^
Chicago  Business  Directory  and  Statis- tics for  184&.  By  J.  W.  NoRRis.  Revi.sed  a.d corrected  by  Robert  F'frgus.  Reprint.  Pp.  7.  ; S\o.     18S4.  Price,  so  ceors.
SO.
Aborigines  of  the   Ohio  Valley;    A  Di?-
cour.'e  prepared  in  i^'j.S  at  the  request  of  the  Hs.5- I'^ricai  Society  of  Ohio.  By  Wili.ia:*;  HicXRV Harrison,  Maj.-Gen.,  U.-S.  Army,  Pre^^ident  of the  United  States,  etc.  With  Notes  by  Edward Evekett.  and  an  Appendix.     Also,
Speeches  delivered  in  General  Council  zt  Ft.  \V'ayiie/ S';pt.  4,  1811,  by  Chiefs  of  the  iVJian.ie  iadian-',  in answer  to  Gen.  Harrisot^.  Governor  of  ^lidiniia  Tei-. rit';ry,   etc.;   also,    somethiny    about    the    History''' Manners,  and  Customs  of  the  Northw^Vitt Indians,  from  M.'-^S  ,  supposed  to  be  in  tlie  haii. V. -i'iii^  of  Capt.  William  Wells.     With   hitroductio-, and  Notes  by  H.W.  li-icKWiTH,    Pp.06;  Svo.    io^'aI. Price,  50  cerii>..
The  Illinois  and  Indiana  Indians. W.  Beckwith  of  Dauville.    I'p.  96,  Svo.    x
■4-     S'-'C.
Chicago  Directory,  i£43.  Canvassed  by  ]«.'.>, Wr:Li.lKGTON  Nr>KKJs.  Resided  and  Corr'i«e'd,"wtCii numerous  omitted  Auditions,  etc.,  by  R'.i!E/vT  Fei;- o'.-s.     Pp.  83;  Svo.     /.SS^,      (In  Pre':;-)     Price    %i  '.<.
Joseph  Duncan,  fifrli  tlovc^oi-  .1  ..;;:..■:.  ; Biographical  Sketch  of.  By  his  daui^hter,  M:  . Julia  Dunca.v  Kikby.     lihis.    Pp.  96;  ov',>.    !!•■'
Price,  5.-;  C&r,!.-.
Ma.ssacre  at  Clucago,  Aug.  15,  1812.  .l)v Mrs.  John  H.  Kinvif.  Reprint  (1844).  v,i{'i  .-.ddi tional  notes  and  h-^'r^.       I'lu^tr.'ited.       .''•>    ^:  'iv;..
J  lUK
f
t^m
