ame et oat Te 
PH Pet ege 
#98 tape son 
oh 9" Ohl <4 sdegiae 
OOS 4 OE Wd ed Wi bye. ota © 
MOE DOT OR PON Ok oe Hh Meee rae 


ie aie 


Prey WTR: FG Oy ee® cata geded 

Gre rh Fete teed He A ma ete pba 
* PP Heees <eeu. we “ f , " 

eA AW | .* Prdee id atne 


<—e 
8 Oe tO Fa HI G00 seme, gy 


i” eT Mig 


as ” ee 
Pim 894 ee psasary 
; i? Boe 


rae 
Wy. eae VP ety 
49 t+ audeg) 


he ® wy ower 


wd C10 ee eerangry 
ores peeved wee * q SPV ere Pw ei a Wet Here Vee welevmarte, pis 
OA eee) ae veaes rns Pr bey yd ier rene 
© ab eies, pelea Gine b1hewee .44 OO Depe pa " * Co 
a aweuny 


Te UAL ee 
wer RA: nee 


y gtbeereaditee 


fied sabe gabceegb®-ras 
, * Pret Mite , WPT OTE EN WAG ih MIAME SP VERSE: aye peterss tanors ae aed 
+) rae ee * 4 Yo 058 4-45) 9b Diana beg Hibwbe th 8IO4 Wp abie retest #8 
or yobs ¥artabont-s beserdnuen gar tedgp 
hed A be ah a aie ore 
‘ yeh eed. Ol es gar ateredee 
SEW LEE kr be ote 
* 


BAN he deg ae rs 


Lahn j fr to 
PT or # ne YE He . 
EES EN ERN He Gv at i 
’ PROF bom ate Hep nh * ! , 
Lk Veh. me Minit oka ahd Sab us o : ; 
Bante oh picaiet Fea haere wot n heen eniaters tie 
ry eae we or wrh bn ow mite ae eapth beal, i . ore am : sage: 
4 4 , : 
et 4h Hie ‘ ep ended ne 
g Bete BUA med GET eh i } m ; 
SP eT IN Vay me) 4gihed 
el AA pond Hie) P) 
ee Peek 
ils went sA reshiden abbas 


A yae eval ae 
>) Fe tet oe 


WeAee diet oe im 
re dedbe od Parr @ Ga ey ee 
Distea ; a 


“ 


Fie 
helen nels 
POW Gs hy ro a 


ar eh Fy ey 
AML : 
Hoele 


‘ [ Reh wipe U i Me hb i tat ssi e! eaten hed atau 
: eR ae OH any ahah rf Ties. ® ; i * ¢ eas 
Oi as : " BN eA Ra ioe gra 
Bi Hy 3d ea i ' vy co “ pM aediibe hemes 
Raine Gaporrait hyn itana oni moi 14 petted ae ae ae ht . eter romisteptated ye eat 
tor I) i f Cae yoke Sed irtpeay) ad Ohi LW Hage ‘yt Aatatenin alent fe 
wes veuna ge tit) 4 ; CM i ha (4 Ps A eats el Uefa at : : 
j Seid wh be (aya 
Veins gi Adel ote 
a Rocks prataten 
dele 
ed 
mS Ohot 
yan ‘ mgs -aoh ar ta 
if F 214s Ph el : 
Une Sy fais Jamies Fi 
A ae ~~) rte 
wea bata ies 


$19 
¢ 
att 


fain et faage 
we Ke 


tad) bs 
‘ae aie 


jhe 


h 
Kei 


irorlp tenet ae! 
oi he Ba poh 4 
swodadates | vind vive * 


pak * 

sis tothe He Sent A 
ay Pay i sr iiade 1 
cht Fee ‘ weit vide ay 


bey Ny 
ay 


aed 
be 


ye het 8 ; 
Wp aes Lt fata? 
whe : 


fs 
pte 
eae 
4 


| ore be eh eds, 
HM ’ Se Or ea eta eset bee 
4 iS ae ‘ Bate “ 
4 + : Ligh beh acme ate ee rere net 
t se %. f 
! ‘ ys! . WINE Mer eos ec easenll iseeln ase ObaenA, Ne r bers Liv ry rehab ty 3 bet “x os 
M i ’ Heid" VE tage en okay eT + A Mad ok, Wah) as A: OOP Uap rae heel steats Mocs b “i oh ig da Pret ating 
, ims ‘tne be tired evened dae th PAN eee ve an weed erat beds a gewey at Mh 9 Ce 
Per ‘ ne oy rt as ¥ f te4 4 HY Ate . A “ \ 
‘ f Jk hy " : soe ] a6 As oa: oy hey ‘1 od . 4 ud Peusdestees 
1 ice Seren ra Aa ArT Ney FA tig ie rata nates 
« + ad i” ‘hy 4 ‘ive r™ 4 . 
eau okra Le 4 pba eis ht ht late Wy Minh boty : Ve taba 
‘ * see Te va be Bs 5 8 bey es hae 
a . He | hee Te v i ave hetho We abe 
. ; iy ‘ ‘ 
* ue yee ve ral 
. Viliek a , hayis 
ne e: ‘ ) eon. a ‘ Y eh me eh 
; , Prd Mel ted pes t eqs 
. 2 " ‘ Nat Pome ; 4 
i" ve +) ty i ; on bya a8 inde gy 'y a bo Hey hy pio} 
eh ah ‘Ao A” ea i fobs et 
be ¢ is « ; . ‘ u 
I. a 4 ‘ 
* 4 ere Naps ato Te 
’ cy 1 ry bee ary Fi ar eet 
‘ ‘hk tt vy T + me ey te 
wa + hi te ‘ 
hed etal ° bie 
> 


[llinois 
Catholic Historical Review 


VOLUME IV JANUARY, 1922 NUMBER 3 


THE PAPACY 


THE DEATH OF BENEDICT X V—THE SuccESsION oF Pius XI. 


According to the figures of the official Catholic directory, the total 
of the members of the Roman Catholic church in the United States in 
1921 was 17,885,616. Throughout all of North America the member- 
ship is 86,700,000, while in South America there are 36,200,000 
Roman Catholics. In Europe, in spite of the world war and its 
terrible ravages, the figures for last year show'a total of 183,760,000 
Roman Catholics. In Asia, where the late pope was putting forth 
extensive plans for mission work, there are 5,500,000. Africa, which 
is also a mission field, contains 2,500,000, while Oceania has 8,200,000. 
The total throughout the world at the present time is more than 
275,000,000. 

The dignity of the papal office carries with it among these millions 
the title and position of his holiness, the Pope, the bishop of Rome, 
_ the successor to St. Peter, prince of the apostles, the supreme pontiff 
of the universal church, the patriarch of the west, the primate of 
Italy, the archbishop and metropolitan of the Roman province, the 
- sovereign of the temporal dominions of the Holy Roman church. All 
of these appellations are officially used by the Roman Catholic church 
and designate the great dignity and exalted honor of the position. 

Supreme power in the Catholic church has always been exercised 
by the bishops of Rome, and that power has always been acknowledged 
by the church. The bishop of Rome is the primate of the whole Roman 
Catholic church, and this primacy is not only of honor, but also of 
jurisdiction and is essential to the constitution of the church. 

It is by virtue of this primacy that the Roman pontiff has full 
and supreme power of jurisdiction over the whole church, not only 
as the infallible teacher in questions of faith and morals, but also as 

227 


228 ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


the ruler in what pertains to the discipline and government of the 
church throughout the world. This power extends over every church 
and every bishop and pastor. 

The popes select and depose bishops, call councils, make and un- 
make laws, send out missionaries, confer privileges and dispensations. 
He may personally teach and guide any of the bishops or their flocks. 
He is the supreme teacher, judge and lawgiver. To him remains the 
final appeal. 

The pope may choose seventy cardinals to act as his counsellors, 
and these have the right to choose a new pope after the papal see has 
been vacant for twelve days. 


ASSIST IN GOVERNMENT 


The dress of the cardinals is a scarlet hat and mantle, to remind 
them of their duty of loyalty to the pope even at the cost of their 
blood. The cardinals form the saered college and various ecclesiastical 
committees or colleges and congregations. The hierarchy, or the 
governing body of the Catholic church, consists of the supreme pontiff 
assisted by the sacred college and by several congregations, or per- 
manent ecclesiastical committees, of which the cardinals are the chief 
members; by the patriarchs, archbishops, bishops, the apostolic dele- 
gates, vicars and prefects and by certain abbots and other prelates. 

The pope is privileged to wear the tiara, or mitre with the triple 
crown, expressive of the triple office of teacher, priest and pastor; 
he has also a crosier ending in a cross as a sign of unlimited jurisdic- 
tion and a soutane of white silk as the chief shepherd of Christendom. 

The fisherman’s ring is placed by the cardial camerlengo upon 
the finger of the newly elected pope. The cardinal camerlengo, after 
Pope Benedict XV was pronounced dead, in accordance with the re- 
quired rules, broke the ring of the fisherman and the seal of the pope. 

The insignia of the pope are made of gold with a representation 
of St. Peter in a boat fishing and contain the name of the pope. 
The ring is worn in memory of the complete consecration of the 
bishop of Rome to the work of St. Peter and as St. Peter’s successor. 
The fisherman’s ring is also used to seal a certain class of official 
papal documents. 

The papal seal is indicative of discretion and of fidelity to the 
church and is an emblem of pontifical dignity. The importance of the 
seal as a means of authentication necessitates that, when authority 
passes into new hands, the old seal be destroyed and a new one made. 


THE PAPACY 229 


At the present time the cardinal camerlengo is Cardinal Peter 
Gasparri, who under Pope Benedict XV was the secretary of state and 
who as chamberlain or camerlengo of the holy see, has the care and 
administration of the property and temporal rights of the holy see, 
especially during the periods of vacancy. It is he who at the death 
of Pope Benedict XV assumed charge of the papal household and 
verified by a judicial act the death of the pope when in the presence 
of the household he struck the forehead of the dead pope three times 
with a silver mallet, calling him by his baptismal name. He also 
attended to the notifying of all the cardinals of the death of the 
pope and of the impending election. The cardinals who are resident 
in Rome await the coming to Rome for the conclave of their absent 
brethren for twelve days, assisting in the meantime at the functions 
for the deceased pontiff. 

- Benedict XV was the 260th pope or the 259th successor of St. 
Peter. Of the list of popes since St. Peter’s time the Catholic ehurch 
venerates eighty-two as saints and thirty-three as martyrs. Nine 
reigned less than one month; thirty reigned less than one year; eleven 
more than twenty years. Only seven occupied the chair for more than 
twenty-three years. These were St. Peter, Sylvester I, Adrian J, 
Pius VI, Pius VII, Pius IX, and Leo XIII. 

Compilations made by the Very Rev. Joseph Faa di Brune, D. D., 
the Rev. Louis A. Lambert and other church writers which have 
received the approbation of cardinals and other prelates in this 
country and Europe show that 104 native Romans have been elected 
pope, 105 natives of other parts of Italy, fifteen born in France, 
nine in Greece, seven in Germany, three in Spain, two in Dalmatia. 
Victor I, the fifteenth pope, St. Miltiades, the thirty-third pope, and 
St. Gelasius, the fifty-first pope, were natives of Africa; Gregory V 
was the first German pope, while Sylvester II was the first French 
pope. Adrian IV, who was elected pope in 1154, was born in Langley, 
England, and his family name was Nicholas Breakspeare. Adrian VI 
was born in Utrecht, Netherlands, and he was the 220th pope. One 
pope was a Portuguese, one a Cretan, one a Thracian and one a 
Hebrew. 

Just as the vast network of the various religious, educational and 
charitable institutions, activities and organization of the Roman 
Catholic church, in order to minister to the 275,000,000 people of the 
different nations belonging to it is the result of serious study, ex- 
perience and labor, so the system followed at this time in Rome is 
not a mere mass of ceremonies or formalities, but is the outgrowth of 
the experience, study and needs of centuries. 


230 ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


In the earliest ages of the church there was no reason to expect 
differences in the elections of pope and bishops, for the bloody perse- 
cutions of the Christians found them in a wonderful unanimity as 
one great family. When a vacancy occurred the bishops of the sees 
near Rome assembled and, with the clergy and the Christian people 
of Rome, agreed on the choice of a successor. There was no definite 
form of election then except that when the choice was made the new 
pope was consecrated as bishop of Rome by the bishop of Ostia, the 
seaport of Rome, and the other bishops. 


CHRISTIAN EMPEROR INTERFERED 


It was when Roman emperors became Christians and the pagan 
persecutions were over that the conditions of unanimity changed. Not 
only did the church grow and expand throughout the world, but the 
Christian Roman emperors as protectors of the church received certain 
rights and privileges. As time went on the imperial influence was 
strengthened until it became necessary to raise barriers against it in 
order to restore the ancient freedom of papal elections. 

On account of this and other dangers and conditions the popes 
took steps at various times to insure the freedom of papal elections 
and issued important decrees regarding it. Pope Nicholas II, (1059- 
1061) in his famous decree ‘‘De Electione Pontificis’’ pointed out the 
evils which hampered elections, and as precautions for the future he 
ordained that the cardinal bishops shall first consult together about 
the future pope and that then the cardinal clerics and finally the 
lower clergy and the people shall give their vote. The pope thus 
chosen was acknowledged as legitimate by all under penalty of ex- 
communication. This edict was giving in reality public sanction to 
what had been observed from the earliest days in almost every papal 
election. 

By degrees the method of electing popes was so modified that it was 
intrusted to the cardinals alone. Thus the preliminary council of 
cardinal bishops was dispensed with as no longer needed when a 
fixed electoral college composed exclusively of carefully selected men 
was established. The custom was also introduced that the pope should 
be elected from the college of cardinals. 


SHut In CARDINALS First 1n 1271 


This change was brought on the establishment of the present 
system of election and was made more definite when the election 
which chose Gregory X at Viterbo in 1271 had lasted two years and 


THE PAPACY 231 


nine months. This long election caused the local authorities at Viterbo, 
when they became weary of the delay, to shut up the assembled 
eardinals within the narrow limits of a room and thus hastened the 
desired election. 


The new pope took steps to prevent such great delays in the 
election of a pope in the future by a law which he promulgated. 


Thus it was ordained that all the cardinals were to assemble in 
one room without any partition and that they were during the election 
to live in common. This room and another retired chamber to 
which the members of the college of cardinals might go freely were 
required to be so closed in that no one could go in or out unobserved, 
nor could any one from the outside speak secretly with any cardinal. 
If any one had anything to say from the outside, it must be on 
business of the elections, and with the knowledge of all cardinals 
present. 


A window through which food would be passed was provided. 
If in three days the cardinals did not elect the pope, they would for 
the next five days receive only one dish for their noon and evening 
meals; after five days elapsed with no election, only bread, wine and 
water was the fare of the cardinals. If any neglected to enter or left 
the inclosure for any other reason except that of illness, the election 
would go on without him, but in case of illness, if health was restored, 
he might re-enter and take up the business where he found it. 


Nations Hap RiGcut or VETO 


For a long time Catholic powers, and notably Austria, France and 
Spain, had what was called the right of exclusion, which was the 
right at a conclave to intervene once with an official indication of 
opposition to a candidate, and this on the ground that the future 
pope should be one against whose person there would be no prejudice 
in any nation. The late Pope Pius X, when he succeeded Leo XIII, 
‘issued an edict which required that the cardinals of the conclave in 
their oath take pledge not to lend themselves directly or indirectly 
to any intervention by any civil power. Thus the right of exclusion 
was wiped out, and any one attempting to further or exercise it is 
placed under the ban of excommunication. 

With prayers upon their lips and with the impressive solemnity 
of a great religious service the cardinals of the sacred college of the 
Roman Catholic church in conclave conducted the election of the 
261st pope and bishop of Rome to succeed Pope Benedict XV. 


Zou ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


Although within the locked-up portion of the Vatican in which the 
conclave is held there are about 300 persons, yet during the actual 
voting, which takes place in the Sistine chapel, only the cardinals 
themselves unattended are present. Every cardinal must vote per- 
sonally ; no votes by proxy are allowed. . 


‘There are three ways by which the cardinals in conclave may elect 
the sovereign pontiff: By quasi-inspiratio, by compromise and by 
ballot. Selection by quasi-inspiratio occurs if after a conclave is 
begun the cardinals agree unanimously at once and without any 
previous deliberation upon the same person. The election by com- 
promise occurs when the cardinals intrust the right of choosing the 
pope to a few specified persons. This method has been used in 
eases of protracted balloting. Both the quasi-inspiratio and the 
compromise methods are rare. 


How THE BALLOTS ARE CAST 


The electoral session opens each morning at 6 o’clock with a mass 
by the sacristan of the conclave. On the first morning, before the 
voting is begun, three cardinals are chosen by lot as scrutatores 
(tellers) and three as infirmarii (gatherers of the votes of such 
cardinals as are ill and confined to their cells) and three as recog- 
nitores (revisers, to examine the proceedings and results and to 
certify the correctness of the count). 


All the ballots or voting tickets are prepared in advance and are 
placed in a silver salver on a table in the center of the Sistine chapel. 
With these is also on the table a bag containing wooden balls, the 
total of which is that of the number of the cardinals present, with 
the name of a cardinal on each. These wooden balls serve in the 
drawing of names of the scrutatores, the infirmarii and the recogni- 
tores by lot. 


During the voting each cardinal, beginning with the dean of the 
cardinal bishops, takes his ballot properly prepared and sealed and, 
holding it up so that all can see, approaches the altar. Before casting 
the ballot the cardinal kneels at the altar and prays. Then he rises 
and with his eyes fixed upon the cross says aloud in Latin the follow- 
ing (in English translation): ‘‘I take Christ our Lord to witness 
that I vote for the one whom in the sight of God I judge worthy.’’ 
He then places the ballot upon the paten on the altar and drops it 
into the chalice and covers the chalice with the paten. 


LATE POPE BENEDICT XV 


(Courtesy Chicago American) 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2025 with funding from 
Boston Library Consortium Member Libraries 


https://archive.org/details/illinoiscatholicO4unse_1 + 


Zz 


THE PAPACY 233 


BALLOT IS CAREFULLY FOLDED 


There are no names of candidates printed on the ballots. ‘The 
tickets are six inches long and five inches wide. On one side are 
eight sections or spaces and on the reverse designs to make it im- 
possible to read what is written on the other side. In provided spaces 
the cardinal affixes his signature, writes a motto consisting usually of 
a verse from the Bible and votes for a candidate by writing the 
name of his choice in the following sentence which is printed on the 
ballot with the exception of the candidate’s name: ‘‘I eleet my Lord 
Cardinal (here fill name) to the dignity of the supreme pontiff.’’ 


_ There are spaces for seals and when the ballot has been filled out it 


is folded in such a manner that the name of the candidate may be 
read at the first unfolding but not the name of the one who cast the 
ballot. Each of the electors fills out the ballot at the center table. 

If a cardinal inside of the chapel is unable to walk to the altar 
the chalice is taken to his seat. If there are any cardinals who are 
too ill to go to the chapel but are in their cells the infirmarii, after 
easting their own ballots, take a small casket with an opening in the 
lid sufficiently large to allow a ballot to be dropped in. They proceed 
to the altar and there unlock the casket and show that it is empty. 
Then they relock the casket, leave the key on the altar, go to the cells 
of the sick cardinals and receive their sealed ballots in the casket. 
When the infirmarii return with the casket containing the ballots they 
open it and count in a loud voice to be heard by all the number of 
ballots. 

During the voting the three tellers stand at the altar and super- 
intend the proceedings. After all the ballots are in the chalice the 
first teller shakes it in order to insure further secrecy. He then takes 
the ballots out one at a time and, partly unfolding each, looks to ascer- 
tain the name of the candidate receiving the vote. He then hands the 
ballot to the second teller, who after looking at the name turns over 
the ballot to the third teller, whose duty is to annourice aloud to the 
cardinals the name of the candidate receiving the vote. 


Votre FoR SELF DOoOESN’r CoUNT 


It requires two thirds of the votes cast to elect the pope. If an 
exact two-thirds vote for a candidate is announced then inquiry is 
made to make sure that the successful candidate did not cast a ballot 
for himself, for the two-thirds required is exclusive of the candidate’s 
own vote. To ascertain this in such a ease the ballot of such candidate, 


234 ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


identified by the motto on it, is entirely unfolded so that both the 
name of the voter as well as the one voted for can be read. If it is 
found that in the two-thirds vote the candidate’s vote is included, 
it is declared that there is no election. 

After the third teller reads the candidate’s name from a ballot he 
passes a needle through that part of the ballot where the words ‘‘I 
elect,’’ etc., are printed and slides it down the string attached to the 
needle. This is done with every ballot, and when all are finished 
the ends of the string are knotted and all the ballots are replaced 
in the chalice. 

There is a small stove in the chapel from which a flue leads to the 
roof. When the vote has not decided the election the ballots are 
placed in the stove together with a supply of straw and other material 
to make black smoke, which emerging gives notice to the people on 
the outside that a pope has not yet been chosen. 


‘WiLL oF Gop; I Must Osry’’ 


Cardinal Achille Ratti, archbishop of Milan, was proclaimed elected 
pope in suceession to the late Benedict XV. He has taken the name 
of Pius XI. 

The thousands waiting in front of St. Peter’s for the wisp of smoke 
which would tell of the election of a new pope or the failure of the 
sacred college to reach a decision gave a mighty shout at 11:33, 
when a wisp of thin smoke instead of the heavy black smoke that 
indicated an undecisive ballot came from the chimney leading from 
the Sistine chapel. It was then known that the Catholic church had 
once more a duly elected pontiff.* 

As soon as the two-thirds vote for Cardinal Ratti had been verified, 
Cardinal Vannutelli, as dean of the sacred college, arose and proceeded 
to the throne of the chosen one, accompanied on either side by 
Cardinals Logue and Bislati, respectively deans of the cardinal priests 
and the cardinal deacons. He was asked in Latin by Cardinal Van- 
nutelli, in accordance with custom, if he accepted, the election to be 
supreme pontiff, and the new pope answered with the formal ‘‘Since 
it is the will of God, I must obey.’’ 

Then the purple canopies over the throne of the cardinals were 
let down, one by one, until only that over the new pontiff remained. 


* According to a Central dispatch received in London this afternoon Cardinal 
Ratti received thirty-eight votes at the conclave. There were fifty-three cardinals 
reported present at the balloting. 


THE PAPACY 235 


This was done to show that the whole sacred college rendered obeisance 
to the new head of the church. Dean Vannutelli thereupon asked the 
new incumbent what name he chose to take during his pontificate, 
and upon his replying ‘‘Pius XI.’’ Mgr. Sincero, secretary of the 
conclave, verified his election to the papal chair. 

The new pope was then escorted to the anteroom within the Sistine 
chapel, where he discarded his cardinal’s robes, assisted by the con- 
clavists, and the papal vestments, which had been: held in readiness 
since the opening of the conclave, were placed upon him. These 
included the white cassock, white sash, white stockings, red slippers, 
a red and gold mozetta, and finally the stole of red worked with gold. 


CARDINALS Pay Him HomaGe 


The pontiff, fully vested with the papal garb and accompanied by 
his cardinals, thereupon returned to the throne he had occupied in 
the Sistine chapel. There the cardinals, according to their rank, and 
headed by Vannutelli, made their first act of adoration to his holiness 
kissing first his feet and then his hands, after which the pope received 
them in embrace and bestowed upon them his first apostolic bene- 
diction. | 

The ‘‘fisherman’s ring’’ was placed on his finger and he left the 
chapel, the whole assembly wending its way through the Sala Ducale 
and the Sala Regia, along the loggias to the Sala Clementina, the 
pope’s official residence. All along the way he received the homage 
of the attaches who served during the conclave. 


ELECTION ANNOUNCED TO CROWD 


Meanwhile the dean of the cardinal deacons, Bisleti, followed by 
several cardinals, repaired to the central balcony of St. Peter’s from 
which the elections of scores of popes have been officially proclaimed 
to the world, and solemnly announced to the great crowd awaiting 
expectantly below: . 


‘‘T announce to your great joy the election of the pontiff.”’ 

This confirmed to the throngs in St. Peter’s square the election 
which had been indicated by the thin stream of white smoke which 
came from the metal stovepipe projecting from the roof of the Sistine 
chapel, when the voting papes of the final ballot were burned. 


The newly elected pontiff, after waiting for some moments in the 


Clementine hall, had left for St. Peter’s, accompanied by the members 
of the sacred college. Arriving at the balcony of the cathedral he 


236 | ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


raised his hand and bestowed upon the multitude his first public 
benediction. He then returned to the Vatican, where the popes in 
recent years have remained virtual prisoners until their deaths. 

It was a striking scene as Pope Pius XI made his first appearance 
at the front of St. Peter’s. As his holiness gave the benediction, the 
assembled troops presented arms, while the crowd acclaimed the new 
pontiff. 

The new pope was one of the latest cardinals created by the late 
Benedict. Only six months have passed since he succeeded Cardinal 
Ferrari as archbishop of Milan. Since that time he has been one of 
the strongest supporters of Benedict’s policy of reconciliation between 
the Quirinal and Vatican.’ 

Pope Pius XI, whom I met a number of times in Poland, when 
he was the papal nuncio there, stands out to me as a real priest of 
the people and will undoubtedly be a pope of the people, who will 
above all have their religious interests at heart at all times, no matter 
what the conditions or complications of the world may be.’ 

He was sent to Poland as representative of the Vatican during the 
world war when the German military forces occupied Warsaw and the 
territory around it, when the central powers were putting forth the 
plan of establishing a miniature kingdom of Poland. During those 
trying times, by his straightforward, simple and honest utterances, 
Mer. Ratti managed to retain the confidence, respect and support 
of the various elements of the Polish nation without getting into 
trouble with the central powers. 


NEUTRAL DESPITE THREATS 


For a while things looked threatening and there were some in the 
German and Austro-Hungarian military circles who demanded that 
he be recalled. Neither threats, alluring offers or skillful diplomacy 
was able to swerve the papal nuncio from his path of neutrality. 

It was his stand and his work when the Germans were in control 
that insured his welcome and caused the Polish nation and the goy- 


2 Associated Press dispatch in Chicago Daily News, February 6, 1922. 

® During the world war and for a long period after the armistice, Anthony 
Czarnecki as staff correspondent of the Daily News, repeatedly visited Poland and 
upon a number of occasions interviewed the new pope, Pius XI, who at that 
time was papal delegate at Warsaw. At some of the public official receptions, 
Mr. Czarnecki acted as interpreter between the churchman and a number of 
prominent Americans visiting Poland, including Herbert Hoover of the American 
relief administration and Gen. Kernan of the American expeditionary forces. 


THE PAPACY 237 


ernment of the new Polish republic to retain him in Warsaw for 
more than three years after the armistice and until he was promoted 
to the cardinalate last June, and the Right Reverend Monseigneur 
Lauri of South America was put in his place. 


AN ABLE LINGUIST 


Whether in the privacy of his own residence in Warsaw or at the 
public receptions which were given by President Pilsudski, Prime 
Minister Jan Ignace Paderewski, or whether it was at the public 
greetings of Herbert C. Hoover, Gen. Kernan of the American ex- 
peditionary forces, or the interallied mission, the present Pope Pius 
XI appeared always the same. A fatherly, affable and kind priest, ever 
watchful and always well posted, his conversations were refreshing. 
He is a linguist, although modest about his knowledge and. use of the 
languages. During his stay in Warsaw he constantly studied and 
practiced in Polish so that he understood whatever was said in that 
language, though he protested that his speech in it could not be 
understood. He speaks French. Italian, German, Spanish fluently, 
in addition to Latin and Greek, and he has a speaking knowledge of 
English and some other tongues to a certain degree. 

Although past 60, he looks about 50 years of age. He is taller and 
heavier than Pope Benedict XV and well preserved for his age. There 
is no severity or pose in his manner, but gentle dignity, and. an 
attitude which is kindly and fatherly. To those who meet and know 
him his talk and manner inspire trust, respect and reverence for a 
good man who carefully and rigidly follows in every way the teachings 
of his Master, who is concerned in the things religious and spiritual 
above all and to whom world problems, politics and international 
questions, though thoroughly known, are secondary in importance. To 
him the religious and spiritual mission at all times and ‘everywhere 
will undoubtedly be foremost. 


LONGED To Visit AMERICA 


He was personally interested in the American relief work in 
Poland, and for that reason he went to receptions where Mr. Hoover, 
American Minister Hugh Gibson, Gen. George Kernan and other 
Americans were greeted. To these Americans, in my presence and at 
times through me as interpreter, he not only conveyed expressions 
of his great appreciation and thanks for what the American nation 
was doing to help the starving children of Poland, but to each of them 
he gave a message that as time goes on the humanity and charity of 


238 ANTHONY CZARNECKI 


the American people would bring thousandfold blessings to the people 
of America. 


He had traveled extensively, but told me that one of his great 
regrets was that he had not visited America. 


‘“Tell the general that a visit to America is one pleasure that I 
have still in store for me and that when my task is done here and 
things are quiet in Europe I will be delighted to go there for a 
visit, for I have friends there and it is a country that I love and 
admire,’’ he said at the public reception to Gen. Kernan in Warsaw. 


He has a remarkable memory. Upon my first visit to him he made 
inquiries about the United States, about the papal delegate at Wash- 
ington and about some of the prelates of this country whom he met 
in Rome. Upon my second visit, after discussing the subject of the 
starving children in devastated areas and the work which was being 
done for them, in which he was intensely interested and co-operating, 
he recalled some of the things which were said in the first visit, com- 
menting thereon. Later, when at a public reception with people 
around him in full-dress and gala attire, some of whom he had met 
only once before in entirely differant garb, he needed no one to recall 
to him the persons whom he had met, and to the Americans he was 
especially gracious and frank.* 


ANTHONY CZARNECKI, in Chicago Daily News. 
Chicago. 


* This article was compiled from several contributions to the Chicago Daily 
News and the form in which it was first printed has remained largely unchanged. 
This fact will account for some peculiarities, especially of capitalization. 


THE NEW BISHOP FOR CHICAGO 


On December 21, 1921, Rt. Rev. Edward Francis Hoban, D. D., 
was consecrated titular bishop of the Episcopal See of Colonia and 
auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago. 


The papal bull raising the new bishop to the Episcopal dignity, 
one of the latest issued under the jurisdiction of the late lamented 
Benedict XV., was dated November 21, 1921. Besides the formal 
provisions of this document the following significant clause is found 
therein : 

We confidently hope and trust that the Metropolitan Church of Chicago will, 


with God’s powerful assistance and your diligent co-operation and faithful 
endeavors, continue to advance even more in things spiritual and temporal. 


The great ceremony of consecration took place in the Cathedral of 
the Holy Name on the Feast of St. Thomas, December 21, 1921. The 
consecrator was the Most Rev. George W. Mundelein, D. D., Arch- 
bishop of Chicago, assisted by Rt. Rev. Alexander J. MeGavick, D. D., 
bishop-elect of La Crosse, and the Rt. Rev. Thomas E. Malloy, D. D., 
bishop-elect of Brooklyn. The sermon was preached by the Rt. Rev. 
Edmund M. Dunne, D. D., bishop of Peoria. 


The procession preliminary to the consecration ceremonies was 
peculiarly notable. Starting from the rectory of the Cathedral first 
came the surpliced choir boys, followed bt students of Quigley Pre- 
paratory Seminary, the Philosophy class from the Seminary of St. 
Mary of the Lake, and long lines of priests of the Archdiocese, of 
religious orders, priests from the neighboring dioceses of Rockford, 
Peoria, Belleville, Alton and others, and friends and classmates from 
more remote regions. ‘‘The monsignori in their brilliant ‘purple pre- 
ceded the visiting bishops and archbishops in order as follows: the 
Most Rev. George William Mundelein, D. D., Chicago; the Most Rev. 
Sebastian G. Messner, D. D., D. C. L., Milwaukee; the Most Rev. 
Austin Dowling, D. D., St. Paul; the Most Rev. Patrick J. Hayes, 
D. D., New York,’’ sixty right reverend bishops and more than one 
hundred of the clergy. | 

Entering the Cathedral the several divisions of the procession as- 
sumed the places assigned them. 

When all was in readiness the papal bulls were read, aloud by the 
notary, Rev. D. J. Dunne, D. D. The oath of obedience to the holy 


239 


240 JOSEPH. J. THOMPSON 


See was administered to the bishop-elect. The Most Rev. Archbishop 
and consecrator was celebrant of the Pontifical High Mass which fol- 


lowed. The deacon of the Mass was Rev. Francis A. Purcell, D. D.; 
subdeacon, Rev. David McDonald; accolytes, the Rev. Philip Furlong — 


and Rev. John Kelly; censer bearer, Rev. Wm. D. O’Brien. There 
were chaplains and deacons of the various dignitaries, and a selected 
body of chanters, all of the clergy. 


The ritual for the consecration of a bishop was strictly followed, 
and when the moment of consecration arrived the Most Rev. Arch- 
bishop took the book of the gospels, opened it, placed it resting upon 
the breast of bishop-elect Hoban, and permitted it to remain there 
until the episcopal ring was presented. The consecrator, together with 
the assistant consecrator, then ‘‘imposed hands on the head of the 
bishop-elect,’’ saying, ‘‘receive the Holy Ghost,’’ at the same time 


praying that the special graces asked for should be received. Then — 


upon the singing of the ‘‘ Veni Creator Spiritus’’ the consecrator made 
the sign of the cross with Holy Chrism on the tonsure of the new 
bishop, following by anointing his hands, and reciting the prayer: 
‘“Whatsoever thou shall bless, may it be blessed, and whatsoever thou 
shall sanctify, may it be sanctified, and may the imposition of this 
consecrated hand and thumb be profitable im all things to salvation.’’ 
Next followed the blessing of the crozier and its presentation, after 
which the consecrator blessed the episcopal ring and presented it. At 
the conclusion of this ceremony the book of the gospels was removed 
from the neck of the bishop and handed to him with the command to 
go and preach to the people committed to his care. Thereupon the 
new bishop was given the kiss of peace by the most reverend conse- 


erator and the assistant consecrator, and was conducted to the altar. _ 


At the offertory the new bishop was conducted again to the main altar 
before the most reverend archbishop, where he presented two lighted 
candles, two loaves of bread, and two miniature barrels of wine. After 
Communion the most reverend consecrator blessed the mitre and 
placed it on the head of the new bishop with a reference to its mystical 


significance as a helmet of protection and salvation. Next the gloves q 


of the new bishop were blessed and placed on his hands, the conse- 
erator praying that he might deserve to implore and receive the bless- 
ing of divine grace by means of the Saving Host offered by his hands. 

The new bishop was then enthroned on the faldstool on the pre- 
della which had just been vacated by the Most Rev. Archbishop, who 
then intoned the Te Deum, during the solemn chanting of which the 
new bishop led by the consecrators was conducted down the main aisle 


4 


4 


Persea 


, te tend 3 4 , 


Rr. Rey. Epwarp F. Hosan, D.D. 


Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago 


‘ 


a 


NEW BISHOP FOR CHICAGO 241 


_ of the vast Cathedral, blessing the people as he passed. On his return 
to the altar he gave the final solemn blessing. 


The address by Rt. Rev. Edmund M. Dunne, D. D., consisted chiefly 
of a detailed and interesting explanation of the ceremony of conse- 
eration. A notable musical program was rendered during the cere- 
monies. The Gregorian chant and Proper of the Mass was rendered 
by specially selected priests of the diocese, directed by the Rev. P. B. 
Smith. The choir was directed by the Rev. P. Mahoney, D. D. The 
musical program was arranged and selected by the Rey. J. HE. Bourget, 
Musical Director of the Archdiocese. 


The services concluded, the prelates and clergymen made their way 
to the Drake Hotel to partake of a banquet prepared for the occasion. 
About eight hundred guests gathered at the dinner, consisting of 
visiting prelates, archbishops, bishops, monsignori, priests from abroad, 
as well as hundreds of the diocesan clergy and of the religious orders 
of the archdiocese. ‘“‘The Rt. Rev. Msgr. D. J. Riordon, pastor of St. 
Elizabeth’s Church, Chicago, was toastmaster. The Most Rev. George 
_W. Mundelein, D. D., Archbishop, responded to the toast, ‘‘Our Holy 
Father the Pope.’’ ‘‘The Archdiocese of Chicago’’ was treated by the 
Rev. John Ryan, pastor of St. Bernard’s Church. On the subject of 
‘“‘Our New Bishop’’ an affectionate tribute to the Rt. Rev. Edward 
F. Hoban was paid by the Rev. T. E. O’Shea, pastor of Our Lady of 
Sorrows Church, who also, in the name of the priests of the archdiocese 
of Chicago, presented the new bishop with a substantial purse. Then 
followed the response by Bishop Hoban. Every man in this notable 
assemblage arose to his feet, a glowing tribute to the worthiness of the 
new bishop. The sincerity and simplicity of Bishop Hoban’s address 
appealed most particularly to those present who had known him in 
every stage of his career. 


The evening of the same day witnessed similar scenese of enthu- 
siasm at Orchestra Hall, where the laity voiced the pleasure and 
appreciation of the public upon the elevation of the distinguished 
Chicagoan to the Episcopal dignity. Arrangements for the evening 
meeting were in direct charge of Mr. D. F.. Kelly, K.S.G., as presi- 
dent, Robert M. Sweitzer, vice-president, Anthony Czarnecki, secre- 
tary, and Edw. A. Cudahy, Jr., treasurer. Mr. E. F. Carry acted as 
chairman of the meeting at Orchestra Hall, where addresses were 
delivered by Mr. John Prystalski, Mr. Michael V. Kannally and Mr. 
Robert M. Sweitzer. The latter presented the new bishop with a sub- 
stantial purse on behalf of the laity. Orchestra Hall was filled to its 
capacity. Various musical numbers lent entertainment to the occasion, 


242 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


notably the numbers rendered by the Paulist’s Choir, under the direc- 
tion of Mr. Leroy Wetzel. 


The new bishop was born in Chicago and received his early train- 
ing in the parochial school of St. Columbkille’s parish. He then passed 
to St. Ignatius College for his classical studies. From this institution 
he went to St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, Maryland, for his phil- 
osophy and theology. He was ordained in Chicago by the Most Rev. 
Archbishop James E. Quigley, D. D., on July 11, 1903. After some 
time spent in parish work he was sent to Rome to prepare for seminary 
work. Receiving the Doctor’s Degree from the Gregorian University 
he returned to Chicago and was appointed. assistant chancellor of the 
archdiocese. When in January, 1910, the then chancellor, Rev. E. M. 
Dunne, was made bishop of Peoria, Msgr. Hoban was appointed chan- 
cellor in his place. He was raised to the degree of monsignor at 
Christmas of the year 1917. 


The selection of Msgr. Hoban as bishop has given universal satis- 
faction, especially by reason of his having been born and raised in 
Chicago, where he enjoys an unbounded popularity. 


JOSEPH J. THOMPSON. 
Chicago. 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF THE 
DIOCESE OF ST. LOUIS 


ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE SECOND ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE 
AMERICAN CATHOLIC HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 


The beginnings of the diocese of St. Louis are not coeval with the 
foundation of the city. Just ike Rome, the Eternal City, with which 
St. Louis has been frequently compared, our Rome of the West had its 
own Alba Longa, from which it drew a good part of its early vigor for 
its civil as well as religious growth. The ancient Jesuit foundations 
of Kaskaskia and Ste. Genevieve, so renowned in our missionary his- 
tory, may be called the first budding forth of Catholic faith within the 
wide confines of our diocese. But even prior to the foundation of this 
missionary center, Kaskaskia, we find marks of beautiful promise 
within the territory in the martyrdom of Father Juan de Padilla, 
O. F. M., at Quivira, on the borders of Kansas and Nebraska, in 1544; 
in Desoto’s erection of the Cross on the banks of the Mississippi in the 
vicinity of New Madrid, about 1541, in Father Marquette’s blessed 
voyage down the ‘‘ River of the Immaculate Conception,’’ to the South- 
ern limits of the future diocese of St. Louis, and lastly in Father 
Montigny’s and St. Cosmes’ landing and celebrating Mass, on the very 
site of the future Archiepiscopal See, on the Feast of the Immaculate 
Conception 1698. 

We have drawn a very wide circle to enclose all these remarkable 
scenes in the diocese of St. Louis. Yet we have done no violence to the 
historical records, for the diocese of St. Louis did really comprise at 
its foundation and long years afterwards, not only the entire State of 
Missouri, but all the territory of Western and Northern Ihnois, and 
of the present States of Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa, 
Wisconsin and Minnesota; in fact the Spiritual sway of the first 
Bishop of St. Louis extended from the eastern boundary of Illinois to 
the Rocky Mountains, and from the Northern boundary of Louisiana 
to the Southern limits of Canada. It had all, at first, been. under the 
jurisdiction of the Bishops of Quebec. With the end of the Revolu- 
tionary war, the part East of the river passed under the jurisdiction 
of Dr. Carroll of Baltimore, whilst the Western part, being ceded to 
Spain, was placed successively under the Bishop of Santiago de Cuba, 
then of Havana, and ultimately of the newly erected See of Louisiana 


and the Floridas, with Bishop Penalver Y. Cardenas, as its first 
243 


244. REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


and practically only ordinary. For with the extinction of the Spanish 
regime the diocese of Louisiana seems to have lapsed, to be re-estab- 
lished under Bishop Louis William V. Du Bourg. 


We have styled Kaskaskia the Alba Longa of St. Louis, our “*‘ Rome 
of the West.’’ No place in the West has more historical interest for 
the Catholic than the humble town of that name, now buried in the ~ 
waters of the Mississippi. It was the oldest permanent settlement of 
whites in the Upper Mississippi Valley. It was for many years the 
center of numerous Catholic Missions for the conversion of the Indian 
tribes. The piety for which the early inhabitants were distinguished, — 
and the number of zealous and devoted priests, who have labored for 
the glory of God and the salvation of men, must always give to this 
hallowed spot an interest which no other place in the West can present. 
Though the Kaskaskia of which we speak be but a memory, yet it is 
one to be treasured forever. For long before the founding of St. Louis 
it was a center of Catholic life and varied activity. In this connection 
I must not omit the village of Cahokia, just across the river from St. 
Louis, center of the Fathers of the Foreign Missions, which disputes 
the honor of greater antiquity with Kaskaskia. 


The first French settlers of Kaskaskia appear to have arrived here 
in 1683, shortly after the discovery of the Mississippi River by Father 
Marquette. The Indian tribe, from which it derives its name, and of 
which it was the central point, numbered about two thousand war- 
riors. A letter by Father Marest, reprinted in the Jesuit Relations, 
gives a glowing account of the piety and most orderly conduct of the 
neophites at Kaskaskia. There is also a long list of Jesuit Fathers who 
served the missions in and around Kaskaskia during the eighty years 
from its foundation to the expulsion of the Jesuits. Father Sebastian 
Louis Meurin was the only member of the Society permitted to stay, 
and together with the Franciscan Father Luke Collet, to take care of 
the people on both sides of the river; but he soon obtained a valiant 
assistant from Quebee in the person of the renowned Father Pierre 
Gibault. With the departure of the Jesuit Fathers from Kaskaskia, 
and of Father Duverger the Vicar General of the entire district, from 
Cahokia, the Illinois Country, as it was then called, threatened to sink 
back into its ancient barbarism. The shepherds being struck down, 
the sheep began to disperse; and the wolves were ever alert and ready 
for the work of destruction. The aged heroic Father Meurin died, but 
Father Gibault, though weary at times, never lost courage. 


It was towards the close of Father Meurin’s life, in 1764, that one 
of the most important events of our history occurred, the foundation 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF DIOCESE OF ST. LOUIS 245 


of the city of St. Louis by Pierre Liguest Laclede. The site of the 
future Metropolis of the Mississippi Valley had but recently become 
Spanish Territory. Don Pedro Piernas was its first Lieutenant Gov- 
ernor for the King of Spain. The central square of the new settlement 
was assigned to the uses of the Church. A cemetery was laid out, and. 
a temporary structure, some say, a tent was used for divine service. 
Both Father Meurin and Gibault, the latter of whom built the first 
church edifice, crossed the river at various times to minister to the 
people’s spiritual wants. In 1770, however, a Spanish Capuchin, 
Father Valentine, was assigned to the post of Pain Court, as St. Louis 
was commonly called, and served there until 1775, and was succeeded, 
after an interval of about a year, by the Capuchin Father Bernard de 
Limpach, the first Canonical Pastor of St. Louis. Under his adminis- 
tration the second church was finished, made of upright logs, and a 
new parish residence was built, a small but solid stone structure. 
Father Bernard de Limpach was of German nationality, but well 
versed in both the Spanish and French languages. His priestly 
neighbor, just across the river, was the Carmelite Father Paul de Saint 
Pierre, likewise a German, as he himself declared, a brave man, and 
ever ready to uphold the rights of the Church and of his persecuted 
people. After Father Bernard’s recall and appointment to Point 
Coupee,’ came Father Jacobin dit Ledru, whose mission was consid- 
ered illegal; then the Benedictine Joseph Didier, and with him a num- 
ber of French royalists who had grown tired of the colony of Gallipolis 
(Ohio). During this period the Parish of Ste. Genevieve was admin- 
istered by the Capuchin Father Hilary, and after him, by the former 
Vicar General of the Bishop of Quebec, Father Pierre Gibault. Among 
the new accessions were Father Maxwell, an Irishman from Salamanca, 
Father Donatien Olivier of Prairie du Rocher, Father L. Savine of 
Cahokia, then the first native priest of Missouri, Father Henry Pratte 
of Ste. Genevieve, and last, the restless Trappist Prior, Father J oseph 
Marie Dunand, who was permitted to stay on the missions in Missouri 
after his Abbot with the entire Trappist Community departed for 
France. Father Dunand resided at Florissant, but made frequent 
excursions to St. Louis, St. Charles, to Perry County and to the far 
northern missions of Prairie du Chien. He returned to France in 1829. 


The work of God so nobly begun by Father Marquette and his fol- 
* lowers now seemed to have come to a complete standstill. All life 
seemed to have withdrawn into the roots; but there was a promise on 
the air of a second Spring. The seemingly dead and desolate parishes 
were soon to rise to a new life, and others, hundreds and thousands in 


246 REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


the vast desert, were awaiting the gentle call of Heaven. It was the 
darkest hour before the dawn, and the herald of the dawn was Benedict 
Joseph Flaget, the saintly Bishop of Bardstown. Almost destitute of 
priests himself, and over-burdened with cares and labors, Bishop 
Flaget made a missionary tour along both sides of the Mississippi. He 
found much that was discouraging, and also much that was cheering 
and comforting in the old French villages and towns, St. Louis, Ste. 
Genevieve, St. Charles, Portage de Sioux and St. Ferdinand, as well 
as in Kaskaskia, Cahokia and Prairie du Rocher. The humble prelate’s 
words had wonderful effect; yet his chief purpose was to develop the 
prospects for a new diocese beyond the Mississippi in what was called 
Upper Louisiana. Circumstances, however, did not as yet seem pro- 
pitious. 


In the meantime Bishop Carroll of Baltimore had nominated one 
of his most distinguished priests, William V. Du Bourg, a Sulpician, 
learned, eloquent, enthusiastic, of imposing stature and noble bearing, 
as Administrator of the forsaken diocese of Louisiana, then including 
New Orleans and all the Mississippi Valley to the west of the river. 
New Orleans was to be his residence; a city torn by religious factions 
and greatly given to infidelity and licentiousness. Dr. Du Bourg was 
not kindly received by the priests and people in his new home. In 
fact the doors of his Cathedral were locked against him. Father 
Antonio Sedella was his chief opponent. Dr. Du Bourg decided to go 
to Rome and ask for help or to be relieved. Pope Pius VII appointed 
him Bishop of Louisiana, with his seat at New Orleans, and after a 
gentle protest, he was consecrated Bishop by Cardinal Joseph Doria, 
September 24, 1815. In Rome Bishop Du Bourg found as by a miracle 
of divine guidance the two men, Italians both, who under God’s Provi- 
dence were to be the chief means in carrying out the vast plans gradu- 
ally forming themselves in this enthusiastic dreamer’s mind, dreams 
rather than plans, and yet to be realized in the end, far beyond the 
dreamer’s expectations. 


We all are, of course, familiar with the main data of Bishop Du 
Bourg’s early life. Born at Cape Francois, Santo Domingo, February 
4, 1766, Louis William Valentin Du Bourg was educated in France, 
and studied Theology at the Seminary of St. Sulpice. 

The revoiution drove him from France in 1792. He fled to Spain, 
then went to Baltimore in the United States, where he arrived in De- 
cember, 1794. In 1795 he became a priest of St. Sulpice, and in 1796 
president of St. Mary’s Ecclesiastical Seminary, Baltimore, which in 
January, 1805, was raised to the rank of a university. 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF DIOCESE OF ST. LOUIS 247 


In 1809 he established the Sisters of Charity in Baltimore, and in 
1811 founded what is still the mother house of the order for the United 
States at Emmetsburg, Md. 


In October, 1812, he was appointed Apostolic Administrator of the 
Territory of Louisiana and arrived in New Orleans at the close of the 
year. And now the new Bishop stood at the threshold of a most labor- 
ious and thorn-strewn career, as organizer of the most extensive diocese 
in all christian- and heathendom. Having obtained the services of 
Fathers Felix de Andreis and Joseph Rosati and a few other members 
of the Lazarist Order, and seeking to obtain every other possible addi- 
tion to his band of missionaries, and to his already large outfit in 
ecclesiastical paraphernalia, Bishop Du Bourg sent the two leading 
men of his flock ahead on the way to Bordeaux, there to await his 
coming. But as the Bishop’s collecting-tour met with flattering success 
everywhere, he decided to send De Andreis, Rosati and a few others to 
their destination in the Far West, promising to follow as soon as he 
could. A great surprise was now sprung upon the devoted mission- 
aries. They were ordered by their Bishop to proceed, not to New 
Orleans, as they had expected, but to St. Louis, about a thousand miles 
inland, in the very heart of the heathen country. Surprised they 
were, but not disconcerted. The saintly De Andreis found a keen 
pleasure in the prospect of going out among the savages to bring them 
the word of life. 

Whilst now, these dutiful followers of Bishop Du Bourg, Fathers 
De Andreis and Rosati, were, in company of a few younger men, speed- 
ing their way across the wide and stormy Atlantic, the Saintly Bishop 
of Bardstown, the ever faithful friend of Bishop Du Bourg, who at 
that time had the spiritual care of the missions along the Mississippi 
River, did all he could to prepare the way for his coming. On April 
9, 1816, he issued a pastoral letter from which we will quote the salient 
passages : 

Without further introduction I notify you that probably before the end of 
this year you will have a resident Bishop, either at St. Genevieve or at St. Louis, 
whose diocese, if I be not mistaken, will comprise the territories of Missouri and 
Mlinois, whilst those of Indiana and Michigan, will, for the present, be added to it. 
This arrangement will not be completed, however, until all the inhabitants of these 
territories unanimously engage themselves to receive, with due honors, the Bishop 
and his lawful successors and to place in his hand a fund for the upkeep of a 
Seminary. This notice is official, and I ask you to forward it to all the parishes, 
those east of the Mississippi as well as those on the western bank. In order to 
proceed in this matter with all possible prudence, I believe it to be advisable that 
every parish hold a parish meeting to select a delegate, and that all the delegates 
repair on a certain date to St. Louis and there deliberate. 


Eyed 
ENG 
(0) 


REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


The deliberations were to be concerning the proper support of the 
Bishop and his institutions. No polities were to be indulged in by the 
delegates. Yet, as the gentle Bishop continues: 


It would not be out of place to discuss the question where it would be more 
advantageous to erect the Episcopal See, at St. Louis or St. Genevieve. As soon 
as these discussions are closed and the minutes thereof made up, they shall be 
submitted to the Bishop of New Orleans and to my own for examination. 


As a warning to possible transgressors he adds: 


The remarks which we may feel obliged to make on this we shall send to you, 
and as soon as all parties are agreed, the result shall be submitted to the Roman 
Curia, which is waiting for them in order to make out the Bulls. 


But Bishop Flaget does not hesitate to dilate on the temporal ad- 
vantages accruing to the future Episcopal See from the presence of 
a bishop within its bounds: 


The great temporal sacrifices which the people must make for the erection of 
the Episcopal See are richly repaid by the permanent spiritual advantages which 
they will derive therefrom. 

I am even convinced that, within the next few years, the population will be 
increased by emigration from other states, to such an extent, that in less than ten 
years your property will have doubled or trebled in value. 

It would therefore be a lamentable blindness against their own advantage and 
that of their posterity, if the people would for considerations of present difficulties 
reject the favors now offered them, and thus forever deprive themselves of the hope 
of possessing an Episcopal See. 


Then comes a rather quaint reproach to the people of the leading 
eity, St. Louis: 


As the location of the See will mainly depend upon the recommendation which 
we, Mgr. Du Bourg and myself, will make, I am determined to oppose with all my 
power the selection of St. Louis, if it be true, what has been written to me, that 
a theatre was opened there, which must neutralize the efforts of even the most 
zealous and most holy Bishop. 


The gentle-hearted but overstrict Bishop of Bardstown could not 
forsee that he himself and Bishop Du Bourg would make the journey 
to St. Louis in company of a band of strolling players as they eventu- 
ally did. For he concludes his warning with these words: 


I trust that the citizens of St. Louis will enter into themselves, and will not, 
for the love of vanity and falsehood, reject the imperishable goods which must of 
necessity come to them from the presence of a Bishop among them, and from all 
the institutions which will be established by him. 


Fathers De Andreis and Rosati and their companions, among them 
the faithful Brother Blanca, made a detour on their overland journey, 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF DIOCESE OF ST. LOUIS 249 


to St. Thomas Seminary near Bardstown, as guests of Bishop Flaget. 
Bishop Du Bourg, who, as we have seen, had decided the question in 
favor of St. Louis, did not arrive in his diocese until December 27, 
1817. Meanwhile Bishop Flaget was untiring in his effort to prepare 
a grand reception for his friend. Together with Fathers De Andreis 
and Rosati, he set out for St. Louis, arriving there October 17, 1817. 
He called a meeting of the parishioners and announced the coming of 
their Bishop. He proved to them that they should feel very grateful 
for the choice that had been made of their city; for, in consequence it 
would not only rapidly become the center of the extensive country 
around, but the center of all religious and literary instruction, whence 
they and their families would derive immense benefit. He also told 
them that, since the Bishop’s residence amongst them would confer so 
many advantages upon their city, they ought on their part, to co- 
operate in his views, and cheerfully give him all the help they could. 
He then began to speak of what it was most requisite to do first, and 
mentioned particularly the preparation of a suitable residence; and, 
as all of these arrangements could not be considered in the first meet- 
ing, he held several general assemblies, at which he begged everyone 
to express his own opinion. During one of these meetings Bishop 
Flaget met considerable opposition to his demands. But the matter 
was settled in an amicable manner, the Bishop desisting from his de- 
mands, and the assembly adjourning without definite action. Every- 
one knew that Bishop Du Bourg would come to St. Louis, no matter 
what its citizens might or might not do. There really was no choice 
between St. Louis and the other towns and villages of Upper Louisiana. 
Father Henri Pratte of Ste. Genevieve, however, succeeded in raising 
the necessary funds to put church and presbytery in some kind of 
order, fit for use. An Irishman, Jeremiah O’Connor, gave 1000 dol- 
lars for the purpose. In any case the cause of St. Louis was secure. 
But how did it come to pass that Bishop Du Bourg, who had been 
assigned to New Orleans and not to the comparatively insignificant 
village of St. Louis, and who in his letters frequently styled himself 
“Bishop of New Orleans,’’ should take up his residence in St. Louis, 
and establish there, and not in the South, his great foundations, the 
Seminary, the House of the Jesuit Fathers, the Mother House of the 
Ladies of the Sacred Heart, and even a Cathedral Church? It is a 
case of God’s beautiful Providence, using the malice of men in further- 
mg the progress of the Church. The recalcitrant priests and people 
of New Orleans became the great benefactors of St. Louis and the 
entire western country, by diverting the good that was intended for 
them, into other more receptive channels. 


250 REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


The coming of Bishop Du Bourg with a new band of helpers raised 
the drooping spirits of his companions that had gone before. There is 
a note of holy joy and eager expectation in the letter of Anthony 
Blane, the future Archbishop of New Orleans, then in deacon’s order, 
dated Seminary of St. Thomas, January 1818. 


We have just heard of the entrance of Monseigneur to St. Louis, on January 
4th, 1818. It was absolutely triumphant. The Bishop left here about December 
12th with Bishop Flaget, a Kentucky priest (Father Stephen Theodore Badin), 
and one of our young men (Mr. Francis Niel, afterward Pastor of the Cathedral). 
They embarked at Louisville, on the steamer Piqua. There they were in a space 
of twelve feet square with twenty-one persons of all ages, men and women, of 
different positions in society, different professions and different religions. There 
were seven or eight comedians, as many Jews or Jewesses, and a great variety of 
sects. In spite of all, the greatest good feeling reigned, and Bishop Flaget says, 
‘We vied with one another in performing little kindnesses.’’ They were detained 
two days in the middle of the river, by the ice. December the 24th they entered 
the Mississippi, and on the 28th Bishop Du Bourg entered for the first time his 
diocese. Accompanied by Bishop Flaget, he took possession by planting a cross, 
his associates singing the Vexilla Regis. (This was on the farm of the Widow 
Fenwick, near the mouth of the Apple Creek, not far from the spot where more 
than a century before, December 12, 1699, Father St. Cosme with three other mis- 
sionaries from the Seminary of Quebec, had erected a cross with similar cere- 
monies.) On the 30th day they came in sight of St. Genevieve, a little city whose 
inhabitants are nearly all French. It is situated about twenty leagues from St. 
Louis. Apprised of the arrival of the Bishop, the leading people hastily assembled 
to prepare for his reception. In less than an hour, the curate of the parish 
(Father De Andreis in the absence of Father Henri Pratte) accompanied by 
twenty-four children, presented himself before Monseigneur. Four of the most 
prominent men of the city carried the canopy, followed by a great concourse of 
people. They proceeded to the Church, where the Bishop, happy in finding himself 
surrounded by his children, preached for the first time. He spoke to them again 
on January Ist, and the next day resumed his journey towards St. Louis. Many 
of the leading citizens escorted him. The news of his approach having preceded 
him, crowds of people were waiting to see him as he arrived at a little place 
called Cahokia. He was received with the liveliest demonstrations of joy. The 
old priest of the village, Father Savine, could not contain his happiness at being 
allowed to offer hospitality to two Bishops. After two days’ delay the party set 
out once more, headed by forty gentlemen, mounted on handsome horses, They 
proceeded two by two to the place of embarkment, for St. Louis is on the other 
side of the Mississippi. A vessel awaited them, and great crowds assembled on 
the banks, received them, when landed. Forming in procession they directed their 
steps toward the Presbytery. Arrived there the people burst forth in manifesta- 
tions of their joy. The Bishop was greatly moved. From the Presbytery the two 
Bishops, wearing their mitres, and walking under a canopy borne by the influen- 
tial men of the city and, preceded by a chorus of twelve children, advanced toward 
the church. Bishop Flaget escorted Bishop Du Bourg to the dais, expressing to 
him the gratification he experienced in seeing him in the midst of his people. What 
a touching spectacle both for pastor and people! The pastor safely arrived at 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF DIOCESE OF ST. LOUIS 2 


the end of a journey of two thousand leagues; the flock at last in possession of 
those spiritual blessings of which they had so long been deprived. Bishop Flaget 
writes that he ‘‘could scarcely restrain tears, so touching was the spectacle.’’ 


This account by young Mr. Blane, though not of an eyewitness to 
the scene, is entirely trustworthy as being based on the words of Bishop 
Flaget and confirmed by collateral reports of eyewitnesses as to par- 
ticular points. Among these, a lady, Mrs. Anne L. Hunt, the daughter 
of Judge Lueas, gives the following side-lights on the occasion : 


‘‘The Bishops, Du Bourg and Flaget, will be here at 12 o’clock today, Jan- 
uary 5,’’ she writes to her Father, Judge Lucas, in Washington, ‘‘and will be 
received with a grand parade in the church by the inhabitants of the place. Mr. 
Pratte found Messrs. Didier, Beleour and Sarpy in Grand Council at the church 
door. The whole town is in an uproar about it, and one-half of the river-shore is 
in anxious expectation. I will give you a description of the installation of Bishop 
Du Bourg. Two carriages took them both from the landing to the Presbytery, 
four priests attended them from thence to the church, beside twelve little boys 
who walked in procession before the two bishops, who were under the dais (or 
canopy) which was supported by Messrs. Didier, Pratte, Sarpy and Belcour. Our 
old church was handsomely decorated and a crimson throne erected, to which 
_ Bishop Flaget led our Bishop and, having seated him, left him and returned to 
the altar, from which he addressed our Bishop very handsomely. But I thought 
his answer was the best of the two. Bishop Du Bourg is certainly more eloquent 
than the other; at all events he speaks more handsomely. The church was never 
so crowed since I have been here, nor will those poor walls ever see such another 
day as this.’’ 


And, now to think the scene of this grandeur was the poor tumble- 
down church of upright logs, of P. Valentin and the ancient presby- 
tery, that had been built by Father Bernard de Limpach, 1777. 


Father De Andrcis, too, brushed aside the little troubles and physi- 
eal inconveniences, fixing his mind on the glorious spectacle soon to 
be realized : 


‘‘Bishop du Bourg,’’ he wrote, ‘‘our worthy prelate, arrived in his 
diocese on the 29th of December, the feast of St. Thomas of Canterbury. I 
was then officiating as parish priest at the village of St. Genevieve, about sixty 
miles below. Accompanied by some forty of the principal inhabitants, I went on 
horseback to receive him, and we conducted him in triumph under a canopy, to 
the church, the bells ringing all the time, amidst the universal joy of Catholics, 
and even of many belonging to the Protestant part of the population. After he 
had taken possession by a Pontifical High Mass, we went, on the Feast of the 
Epiphany, to the capital, St. Louis, in order to perform the same ceremony. 
Everything went off admirably, thanks be to God. The mere presence of the 
Bishop, who with us is just the same as we knew him at Monte Citorio, his kind- 
ness, benignity and suavity of manner have dispelled the storm, dissipated, in a 
great measure, every prejudice, and captivated all hearts, so that the plan of the 


pip REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


Cathedral, to be built of stone, is already traced, and will soon be carried into 
execution. When this is done we will begin to think of the other buildings; it is 
just that we should commence by the church, for we have nothing now to serve 
the purpose of one, but a miserable log cabin, open to every wind, and falling to 
pieces. The Bishop has, however, bestowed upon it splendid temporary decora- 
tions, chiefly composed of the ornaments he obtained while in Europe—(Father 
De Andreis to Father Sicardi, February 24, 1818.) 


And Bishop Du Bourg himself on his return from France, wrote of 
his satisfaction at the happy termination of his voyage, under date of 
January 8, 1818: 


hs Se tise foe x Here I am in St. Louis, and it is no dream. The dream would 
be most delightful, but the reality is even more so. I visited several parishes en 
route. Everywhere the people came in crowds to meet us, showing me the most 
sincere affection and respect. My house is not magnificent; but it will be com- 
fortable, when they have made some necessary repairs. I will have a parlor, a 
sleeping room and a very nice study, besides a dining room and four rooms for » 
the ecclesiastics, and an immense garden. My Cathedral, which jooks like a poor 
stable, is falling in ruins, so that a new church is absolutely necessary. It will 
be one hundred and fifty feet long by seventy wide; but its construction will take 
time, especially in a country where everything is just beginning. The country, 
the most beautiful in the world, is healthy and fertile, and emigrants pour in. 
But everything is very dear.’’ 


In an undated letter to one of his early friends, the Abbe Les- 
pinasse, Bishop Du Bourg gives an interesting outline of the general 
plan pursued by him in establishing religion on a firm basis within his 
vast diocese. That part which refers to the diocese of St. Louis fol- 
lows: The entire letter can be found in the Records of the American 
Catholic Historical Society of Philadelphia, Vol. XIV, No. 2. It was 
written about 1823. 

‘‘Feeling that it was impossible to plunge into my Eplscopal city (New 


Orleans), without compromising, from the very start, the holy character and 
authority with which I was vested, I decided to begin operations by attacking the 


weakest points of my diocese. Thence as from a stronghold from which I could 


muster my forces, I would sally forth, and having conquered the surrounding 
territory, the citadel (New Orleans) would finally be obliged to surrender. St. 
Louis and the immense territory of the Missouri were the first scene of my 
maneuvers. I had difficulties here of all kinds to struggle with. Profound ignor- 
ance and its attendant evils, general corruption, lack of morals, dire poverty. I 
had not whereon to lay my head, and was accompanied by fifty-three brothers in 
arms. 


‘“We fell back into the woods to serve as a shelter. We laid the foundation 
of an edifice (The Seminary of St. Mary) which after four or five years of trial, 
we had the happiness of seeing completed. The fields were cultivated, the live 
stock increased, a mill was built. From this center my pioneers went forth in all 
directions. They cleared the country. They even penetrated to the chief city 


HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OF DIOCESE OF ST, LOUIS 253 


‘¢This seminary, finally established in Missouri, I turned my attention to St. 
(New Orleans), were received with confidence, and finally succeeded in disposing 
the inhabitants to accept their leader. 


Louis. I renovated the dilapidated parsonage. I built a school house, which was 
taken in charge by my clergy. They also contributed to its support, the parish 
giving absolutely no aid. Each one contributed so much, however, towards the 
construction of a church. We established the Ladies of the Sacred Heart in the 
neighborhood (at Florissant), and their institution was flourishing for a time. 
Then on account of great poverty in that part of the city, it languished, but is 
now enjoying its former success. This convent is in a beautiful locality. They 
have a fine brick house, a church, ete., and accomplish a great deal of good. They 
have a great many poor girls and also some little savages. I had the happiness 
of establishing the Jesuits in the same quarter, some time after, in a very pretty 
house, which I gave them. They are seven in number without counting the 
brothers. They will surely do a great deal of good in the future, but they are 
destitute of everything, save what they can raise themselves. I trust that Provi- 
dence will come to their aid. God never abandons those who work for Him, though 
He sends them trials sometimes to try their faith and increase their merit. The 
government pays them for the support of a few savages. In order to secure a 
piece of bread for the Bishop and his clergy, I bought some waste land near the 
city, but through lack of laborers to work upon it it produces nothing as yet. It 
will, perhaps, be a source of revenue in the future, as will also about ten other 
lots, in the city itself. To sum up, five years ago I arrived for the first time in 
New Orleans.’’ 


Such was the humble and touching event of Bishop Du Bourg’s 
installation in his pro-cathedral of St. Louis, an event as fruitful as 
any in our history, in great and far-reaching achievements. On the 
Feast of the Epiphany, 1818, St. Louis became the center of the re- 
ligious activities in all the vast region, now formed into the States of 
Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Kansas, Arkansas, and Minnesota, with their 
many flourishing archdioceses and dioceses—St. Louis, the Mother 
Church of the Upper Mississippi Valley. 


Of the two great and saintly men upon whom Bishop Du Bourg 
securely rested his confidence, Felix de Andreis died in the odor of 
sanctity, October 15, 1820, and Joseph Rosati was yet to become Coad- 
jutor to Bishop Du Bourg, then first Bishop of the diocese of St. Louis, 
and administrator of the diocese of New Orleans upon the departure of 
its Bishop. It was the 14th day of July, 1826, that St. Louis was 
raised to the dignity of an Episcopal See with Bishop Rosati as its 
first bishop. (March 20, 1827.) Our task, however rapid and meager 
in details, is therefore completed. The real fruitage of the long years 
of labor and sorrow and hope deferred, was yet to come under the 
great prelates, Bishop Joseph Rosati, Archbishop Peter Richard Ken- 
wick, Archbishop John Joseph Kain, and our present distinguished 


254 REV. JOHN ROTHENSTEINER 


and most successful Archbishop John Joseph Glennon. Though vastly 
reduced in territory since the closing days of Bishop Du Bourg, the 
diocese of St. Louis has steadily grown in population, in the number 
and beauty of its churches, and institutions, and in the strength and 
vigor of Catholic life, a diocese ancient, yet ever young, the honored 
Mother of faithful daughters, our own dear Rome of the West. 


Rev. JOHN E. ROTHENSTEINER. 
St. Lows. 


r* 
ie “ i» 


THE ILLINOIS PART OF THE DIOCESE 
OF VINCENNES 


In the period between the close of the Revolutionary War, when 
the territory of the United States was separated from that of Canada 
and British-America, the Illinois region was under the spiritual 
jurisdiction, first, of the diocese of Baltimore. Later the diocese of 
Bardstown (now Louisville, Kentucky) was created, and the territory 
in which Louisiana was situated then stretching upward and including 
the Spanish territory west of the Mississippi, was reconstructed and 
placed under the dominion of Right Rev. Louis Wiliam DuBourg. 
In this new country boundary lines were not then sharply defined, 
and there was more or less question as to the extent of the authority 
of these western bishops. The first Bishop of Bardstown, Rt. Rev. 
Benedict Joseph Flaget, and Bishop DuBourg, first located at New 
Orleans, did not quarrel about their jurisdiction, howevr, but effected 
a mutual arrangement by which each became the Vicar-General of 
the other, and each took an interest in the undefined territory. 

When Bishop DuBourg, with the hope of allaying the opposition 
of members of the Spanish clergy, located in New Orleans prior to 
the bishop’s appointment, removed his Episcopal residence from New 
Orleans to St. Louis, and soon thereafter went to Europe leaving his 
auxiliary bishop, Rt. Rev. Joseph Rosati in charge, later to succeed 
as bishop upon the resignation of Bishop DuBourg, that prelate ex- 
tended his jurisdiction throughout the western portion of Illinois, 
and also into the northern portion, covering all the western churches 
and missions, and Galena and Chicago as well. 

The diocese of Vincennes was created by a papal bull of 
Gregory XVI, dated June 17, 1884.1 In this document the jurisdiction 
of the bishop was defined, the territory included being the whole of 
the State of Indiana, and that part of Illinois east of a line drawn 
north from) Fort Massic along the eastern boundary of Johnson, 
Franklin, Jefferson, Marion, Fayette, Shelby and Macon counties, to 
the Illinois river, eight miles above Ottawa, and thence to the northern 
boundary of the state. The new bishop (Rt. Rev. Simon William 
Gabriel Bruté) gave his understanding of his Illinois territory as 
follows :? 


1Garraghan, The Catholic Church in Chicago, 1673-1871, p. 71. 
* Ibid. 
255 


256 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


It seems to me and I have answered to that effect that my true limits in 
Illinois, being a meridian drawn from Fort Massae to the falls of the Illinois 
river eight miles above Ottawa. Everything to the west belongs to the diocese 
of St. Louis, as the towns of Shelbyville, Decatur, Bloomington, Ottawa. 


For the purpose of illustrating his jurisdiction the good bishop 
made a rough pen sketch, in which he included the Illinois missions 
of Chicago, Coffey and Shawneetown.‘ 

It will be seen that he extended his activities farther west than 
these stations, his priests having pushed down from Chicago to Joliet, 
and even. as far as Morris on the Illinois river. 

The first priest to come to Chicago under orders of Bishop Bruté 


was Rey. Bernard Shaefer. It will be remembered that by dint of — 
much pleading Bishop Bruté had persuaded Bishop Rosati to permit - 


Rev. John Mary Iraneus St. Cyr, whom Bishop Rosati had sent to 
Chicago in 1833, to to remain for a time in Chicago. Grudgingly 
Bishop Rosati granted this request, but gave Bishop Bruté to under- 
stand that he must soon arrange to care for that part of Illinois in 
his diocese without help from the diocese of St. Louis. Accordingly, 
Bishop Bruté, as soon as it was possible, begun sending priests into 
Illinois, and the first sent by him as stated above was Rev. Bernard 
Schaefer. 

Father Schaefer arrived in Chicago in the fall of 1836. Father 
St. Cyr in a letter addressed to Bishop Rosati of St. Louis, dated 
September 5, 1836, stated that Father Schaefer had been with him 
‘‘for some weeks.’ Father St. Cyr remained until April 17, 1837.° 
Father Schaefer was still in Chicago when Father St. Cyr left, and 


was then and after Father St. Cyr’s departure the sole priest in — ; 


Chicago until the early or middle part of June, 1837, when Rev. 
Timothy O’Meara sent by Bishop Bruté arrived,’ whereupon Father 
O’Meara and Father Schaefer worked together and were both ex- 
ceedingly active as is demonstrated by the entries in the parish 
register, summaries of which have been published in recent numbers 
of the Intino1is CaTHoLic Historical REview.® 

Father Schaefer died in Chicago on October 2, 1837.2 This first 
priest coming to Chicago from the diocese of Vincennes, and the 


® Tbid., foot note. 

*See cut op. p. —— 

> Garraghan, op. cit., p. 90. 

° Ibid., p. 97. 

" Ibid., p. 103. 

® July, 1921. 

* Bruté to Leopoldine Association. Garraghan, op. cit., p. 102. 


Ton eS 


AD Ft 1% 


Rt. Rev. SIMON WILLIAM GABRIEL BRUTE 
First Bishop of Vincennes, who exercised jurisdiction of Eastern Illinois and 


Chicago. 


Ee. 


ee 3 te 


mM" t fou B; elt. 


1é, “ eae (es as ote 


gs x io 
|eg e& + oa “ft — 


he ae /y woe D 
oy 


le Ke «é ere e 


j E38 : : . 
dpe LE oy oles 


(auf fe “ota 
bey Janey ) 
Hted Goupry aliouf 
0 there fo tik 

Yume lou 


44 Zee, 256 
“4s «L ef du. 


coer Oe Vila 


é 


Dee More ee Jud 
a 


L 


ves sha te 


i 
q rae 


(Courtesy Loyola University Press) 


a 


i a 
Vy piece 


; 


eZ f Wy P< 


f Saar 


fg et eee ; Sree fey 
cA on ‘ora 

4eit] eee Fee Gr Reo ees 

ite bx t ct 


To 


“sn, 


hee 


ee 


Ry 
¥ 


So : 
, ety a1 bine 
res 


SKETCH OF MISSIONS IN ILLINOS AND INDIANA MADE BY BISHOP BruTrsé 


(Courtesy Loyola University Press) 


-—, 


“1, 8 
*! 
“| 
4 
' 
3 
bi 
\ 
7 


ILLINOIS PART OF THE DIOCESE OF VINCENNES 257 


first German priest ever known to have ministered in Chicago was 
therefore slightly more than a year in the service of Chicago Catholics, 
Unfortunately very little is known of him. The numerous entries in 
the parish register are written in a beautiful hand, and bear all the 
characteristics that are associated in handwriting matters with educa- 
tion and culture. 


After his death Bishop Bruté in writing to the Leopoldine Asso- 
ciation, said: 

I have lost one of my excellent fellow-workers by death. Mr. Schaefer of 
Strassburg, who accompanied me to America, whom I sent to the mission of 
Chicago immediately after my arrival, and who preached in French and English 
as also in German, and by his exceeding zeal in the service of souls had won the 
love of all, died to our great sorrow on October 2, (1837), feast of the Guardian 
Angels.” 


To all appearances the whole of Father Schaefer’s priestly life, 
a very brief one, was spent in Chicago. As a young priest he comes 
from Strassburg in Alsace with Bishop Bruté, is immediately as- 
signed to the Chicago missions, labors faithfully for a short year, 
and dies. 


Now Father O’Meara is alone, and continues his ministrations 
unmolested for a little over two years more, and until the arrival 
of Rev. Maurice de St. Palais in December, 1839." 


What has been said respecting the dearth of knowledge con- 
cerning Father Schaefer is almost equally applicable to Father 
O’Meara. The one definite thing we know about his coming to 
Chicago is that Bishop Bruté in a letter to Bishop Rosati, dated 
June 29, 1827, said: 


I have sent an assistant to Mr. Schaefer, Mr. O’Meara, an Irish priest, who 
came to join us a short time ago.” 


Just a new arrival in the Vincennes diocese; Irish, and sent to 
Chicago to assist Father Schaefer. As has already been seen in 
recent issues of the InLrnors CarHonic Historical Review, Father 
O’Meara became very active in Chicago, and has to his credit numer- 
ous baptisms and marriages.* It is very plain that he assumed 


* Ibid. 

" Tbid., p. 106. 

® Tbid., p. 103, foot note. 

#% On six long sheets of discolored paper found folded up in a volume of the 
parish records of St. Mary’s Church, written in the hand of Father O’Meara, are 
the records of 53 baptisms and 28 marriages, dated from December, 1839, to Octo- 


258 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


complete control of the parish, especially after the death of Father 
Schaefer. 

When he came he found the little church that Father St. Cyr 
had built standing near the southwest corner of what is now State 
and Lake Streets, upon ground controlled by the Canal Commissioners. 
It was the intention of the Catholics to buy the ground as soon as it 
would be placed on sale, under the arrangement to sell the Canal lots 
at a public auction, and there was a friendly arrangement amongst 
local people not to run up the price on the lot, but to permit the 
Catholics to obtain it at the valuation fixed by the commissioners. 
When the time of sale came and it was announced that the valuation 
had been fixed at $10,000 the Catholics saw that they were unable to 
raise the amount, and the lot was purchased by a private party. 
Thereupon it became necessary to remove the building, and that was 
done under the direction of Father O’Meara. The place to which it 
was removed was the property at the northwest corner of Michigan 
Avenue and Madison Street. Father O’Meara bought this lot from 
the government for $262.00, and received a quitclaim deed from Jean 
Baptiste Beaubien, who claimed it, together with all the other prop- 
erty, which had formerly been included in the government reservation 
for Fort Dearborn.*® 


Having removed the little church, and the congregation having 
grown, it was determined that the church should be enlarged. This 
enlargement was made by adding an addition to the rear of the 
church, about the same length as the original church.1® To make it 
more imposing a small belfry was built on the front of the church, 
and a bell said to be a very small one, weighing only three pounds," 
was placed in the belfray, which was surmounted by a eross.1® This 
was the first belfry and the first bell ever used for church purposes 
in Chicago. | 

In the little church thus enlarged and ornamented Father 
O’Meara continued his ministrations from year to year, and his 
congregation increased and multiplied. The beginning of work on 


ber, 1841. On the first of these sheets in the handwriting of Father St. Palais 
occurs the record of a marriage by him on January 8, 1840. No further record 
is made by Father Palais until January 9, 1841. 

4 Dexter Graves. See Andrea’s History of Chicago, Vol. 1, p. 290. 

* Garraghan, op. cit., p. 106, note 26. 

76 Andrea’s, op. cit., p. 290. 

" Tboid. 

8 Tbid. 


ILLINOIS PART OF THE DIOCESE OF VINCENNES 259 


the Illinois-Michigan canal brought people in droves from the East, 
the great proportion of whom were Catholics. These neweomers 
settled all along the route of the canal, and became members of 
Father O’Meara’s congregation. In consequence he was frequently 
ealled upon to visit them in sickness, and the indications are that 
he ministered to the residents along the canal route extensively. He 
has the reputation of having become extremely popular, not alone with 
the residents of Chicago, but with all those along the canal route as 
far down the river as Joliet.’ 

Sometime either before or after the removal of the little church 
from the State-Lake location to the Michigan-Madison site Father 
O’Meara procured a house located on the eastern portion of the same 
ground to which the church was removed. No one seems to have 
stated whether this house was built by Father O’Meara or whether 
it existed there before the removal of the church property. It 
became an important place at any rate as it remained the residence 
of all the priests in Chicago up to the time of the arrival of Rt. Rev. 
William Quarter, the first bishop, and became and continued to be the 
Episcopal residence for Bishop Quarter, his suecessor, Rt. Rev. James 
Oliver Vandeveldt, and also of Rt. Rev. Anthony O’Regan, until that 
prelate built a new residence. It was for a time alos the residence 
‘and convent of the Sisters of Mercy, the first religious order to come 
to Chicago; and in connection with the rear portion of the little old 
church, which was removed and placed at the rear of this first 
residence, became the first boys’ school in Chicago.?° 


During the nearly three years that Father O’Meara ministered 
in Chicago prior to the coming of Father Palais, every religious duty 
was apparently properly attended to, and there was not a single 
hitch in the progress of the Church. 

In December, 1839, as stated, Rev. James M. Maurice de Long 
d’Aussace de St. Palais, to give him his full title, arrived in Chicago 
as the new pastor appointed by Bishop Bruté. His arrival was a 
surprise to Father O’Meara, and that clergyman was loath to yield 
the pastorate which he considered his own to the new arrival. Of 
course, there were claims and counterclaims, but Father O’Meara 
Was in possession, and refused to yield. Being without a church the 
new pastor was obliged to make other arrangements for his ministra- 
tions, and accordingly secured quarters on the second floor of a 


* Tbid., p. 20. 
* Bishop Quarter’s Diary. 


260 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


building on the northwest corner of Wells and Randolph Streets,?* 
where he held divine services. Naturally the people were puzzled and 
a division arose, some sustaining Father O’Meara, and other recogniz- 
ing the authority of the new pastor. It has been said that the question - 
of nationality was raised; that Father O’Meara said he would not be 
displaced by a Frenchman; that many of the Irish adhered to Father 
O’Meara, and a considerable disturbance ensued, not entirely free 
from scandal. This condition continued for some time, and knowledge 
of it was brought to the Bishop of Vincennes, who at the time was 
Rt. Rev. Celestine René Guy de la Hailandere, who had succeeded 
Bishop Bruté. Conflicting accounts of what followed have been given, 
some maintaining that some bishop and some vicar-general came to 
Chicago and investigated, and statements have been made that mem- 
bers of the congregation gathered to indicate their interest, and that 
the visiting clergymen addressed them upon the subject, reminding 
them of their allegiance to the Church and of the duty of their 
obedience to its decrees; told them they knew no distinction of nation 
or habit among Catholics, but that the only distinction which must 
be maintained was between the worthy and unworthy, the faithful 
and unfaithful sons of the Church, and concluding by warning them 
that if they offered the slightest resistance to any public ceremony | 
enjoined by the Church they would themselves incur the guilt of 
sacrilege and be accordingly subjected to the very pains and penalties 
of excommunication which they wished to avert from another. This 
had the effect of calming them into submission, and Father O’Meara 
seeing this consented to assign over to his superiors the property of — 
the Church which he had unlawfully withheld from it, and to leave 
town on the following day, so that all proceedings were stayed against 
him.*? | 

It is certain that the larger part of the article from which the 
above quotation is taken is false. We have not been able to learn 
whether or not any other clergyman came to Chicago during this 
conflict, but it is undoubtedly true that the conflict was decided in 
favor of Father Palais. It is true also that on June 27, 1840, about 
six months after the beginning of the conflict Father O’Meara tendered 
in writing to Bishop Hailandiere his resignation as ‘‘Pastor of the 
congregation of the Catholic Church of the city of Chicago,’’ and that 
he at the same time deeded the property at the northwest corner of 
Michigan Avenue and Madison Street to the Bishop of Vincennes. 


1 Andrea’s, op. cit., p. 291. 
*“ Letter of Buckingham in Andrea’s History of Chicago, Vol. I, p. 292. 


ILLINOIS PART OF THE DIOCESE OF VINCENNES 261 


It is not true that Father O’Meara left Chicago the next day 
after the settlement of the dispute. No one so far as we are advised 
has stated when Father O’Meara really left Chicago, but it is certain 
that he was still in Chicago after Bishop Quarter had come here, 
as that Prelate made the following notation in his diary under date 
of March 17, 1845: 

‘¢ After the congregation, Rev. Mr. O’Meara, who is not officiating, 
eame to the railing and communicated.’’** 

And this is all we know of the Rey. Timothy O’Meara, the second 
of the priests who came to Chicago from the diocese of Vincennes. 
One cannot help cherishing the hope that this apparently devoted and — 
hard working priest overcome the handicap of this unfortunate com- 
plication, and in some other field worked out a happy future. 


Accordingly, Father Palais now became the Chicago pastor. 


We are therefore very much interested in Father Palais, the third 
pastor of Chicago and the first builder of a permanent church. We 
are fortunate in having a very circumstantial and reliable account of 
Father Palais as follows :** 

James M. Maurice de Long D’Aussace de St. Palais, the fourth 
Bishop of Vincennes, was born at La Salvetat (in the province of 
Languedoc), in the diocese of Montpelier, in France, on the 15th day 
of November, 1811. He descended from a very ancient and noble 
family, and could trace his ancestral line of descent back through 
centuries. His family was very wealthy, and always took an active 
and prominent part in public affairs; and many of its members ac- 
quired fame and distinction in the military service of the country. 
Members of his family, centuries before his time, were known to have 
taken a prominent and active part in the crusades and also in the long 
bloody wars waged against the Moors. 


Young de St. Palais very early gave evidence of more than ordi- 
nary abilities,2° and as he was destined to inherit great wealth and titles 
of nobility, his parents determined to give him an education suitable 
to the exalted position he was sure to occupy in the course of time. 
For this purpose they sent him away from their home in the south 
of France to Paris, then the grand centre both political and intellect- 
ual of European civilization, where he received a classical education 


* Bishop Quarter’s Diary. 
* Cauthorne, History of St. Francis Xavier Cathedral. 
* He passed through the earlier grades at the age of thirteen. 


262 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


in the celebrated educational intitutions of the French metropolis. 
Having completed his secular studies, and when thoroughly prepared 
to enter upon a brilliant carcer in any sphere of civil life which his 
native talents and acquired attainments, in connection with his birth 
and wealth assured, to the surprise of his family and friends, he an- 
nounced his determination to renounce all the glories and honors the 
world could give him, and devote himself to the service of the Church 
as a priest. He, accordingly, at once entered as a student the cele- 
brated seminary of St. Sulpice in Paris, where Bishops Bruté, de la 
Hailandiere and so many other distinguished prelates of the Catholic 
Church were educated. In this justly celebrated institution he prose- 
cuted his philosophical and theological studies, and in the year 1836, 
when he was twenty-five years old he was ordained priest.2® About 
the same time the sainted Bishop Bruté was in France, seeking mis- 
sionaries for his diocese, and it has been said he was ordained priest 
by this good man. However that may be, it is certain that on this 
visit to France of Bishop Bruté he became acquainted with him, and 
his fervent soul was aroused by his recital of the pressing want of 
priests in his diocese, and that he determined to leave his native 
country with all its charms and fascinations, his noble and wealthy 
kindred and the friends of his youth to go to a strange and wild coun- 
try, and literally bury himself from the presence of all refined and 
civilized life, in the forests of the West. He accompanied Bishop 
Bruté on his return to his diocese, and arrived at Vineennes in 1836. 
He was then a young priest, it being the same year of his ordination. 
His first work in the diocese of Vincennes was at a station about thirty- 
five miles East of Vincennes, in the very heart of the wilderness 
country. Here this man, an heir of wealth and to lordly titles born, 
settled down to his work with apostolical zeal, destitute of the com- 
forts and many of the necessities of life. From what I know of the 
locality in which he commenced his ministerial career in this diocese, 
and that knowledge applying to it at a much later period, I am war- 
ranted in saying that, on many occasions he was compelled to prepare 
his own dinner, if he was so fortunate as to have anything to prepare. 
From this station in. the woods he also ministered to the spiritual 
wants of the few scattered Catholics in the neighboring counties 
around him. The Catholics within the range of his ministrations were 
all very poor, as is the case generally with the early pioneer settlers 
of any country. But Father de St. Palais, notwithstanding their poy- 
erty, devised many novel and unheard-of ways and means to obtain 


*° Said to have been ordained by Bishop Bruté himself. 


~ 


ILLINOIS PART OF THE DIOCESE OF VINCENNES 263 


funds to build churches and advance Catholicity throughout the wide 
region he visited in the discharge of his priestly functions. He here 
patiently and quietly labored literally in the back woods until 1839, 
when he was sent by Bishop de la Hailandiere to Chicago.*’ At that 
time Chicago was a very small place, of only a few thousand popula- 
tion, but already gave evidence of the wonderful results which have 
since been realized by its phenomenal growth. Unfortunately a schism 
in the church had been productive of much harm, and it had baffled the 
skill and ability of many able prelates in the efforts made to heal it.*® 
But Father de St. Palais by his affable and genial disposition, uni- 
form evenness of temper which it was almost impossible to disturb, at 
length sueceeded in procuring perfect unity by reconciling all differ- 
ences that had previously existed. He remained in Chicago for five 
years, and was then sent by Bishop de la Hailandiere to Logansport, 
Indiana. At the time Father de St. Palais was ministering to the 
wants of the Catholics at Chicago and Logansport, there were no facil- 
ities for travel as now, and in fact, very poor roads of any kind, any- 
where, and in places none at all, so that in visiting his flock scattered 
here and there for miles around and far apart, from the place where 
he was stationed, he was compelled to make the, transit on his pastoral 
visitations on horseback, and to travel such long distances through a 
sparsely settled country that he was frequently compelled to pass the 
night in the woods without any shelter and on account of the want of 
inns for the accommodation of travellers, he was compelled to carry 
his scanty supply of provisions in his saddle-bags. But his amiability 
and kindness endeared him to the people so that they loved him and 
the survivors yet hold him in kind remembrance.”® Father Campion, 
the present pastor of St. Vincent de Paul’s church in Logansport, in 
the diocese of Fort Wayne, delivered a lecture in St. Francis Xavier’s 
eathedral last year to the Catholic Knights, in the course of which he 
alluded to Father de St. Palais and his ministerial labors at Logans- 
port, and said his memory was still fresh in the minds of his former 
parishioners who loved to speak in praise of him.*° 

He remained in Logansport about two years, when in 1846 he was 
transferred to Madison, Indiana, which may be said to have been the 
first station which this cultured and noble born priest had in this 


7 A more detailed account of his Chicago labors to be found in a subsequent 
paper. 

* This is the conflict referred to above when treating of Father O’Meara. 

Tt is to be remembered this is a contemporary account. 

* See Note 29, 


264 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


diocese where he was surrounded with anything like comfort or con- d 


venience. He remained there but one year, as on the accession of 


Bishop Bazin to the episcopal chair of the diocese, he called Father de — 
St. Palais to Vincennes, and appointed him Vicar General and Supe- — 
rior of the ecclesiastical seminary. He did not discharge these func- — 
tions very long, as Bishop Bazin only lived six months, less a day, 
after his consecration. On his death-bed Bishop Bazin appointed 
Father de St. Palais administrator of the diocese during the vacancy 
of the see. Pope Pius IX appointed him bishop of the diocese on the 
3rd day of October, 1848, and on the 14th day of January, 1849, 
Bishop Miles of Nashville, assisted by Bishop Spalding of Louisville, 
and Father Dupontavice, consecrated him bishop in the eathedral of 
St. Francis Xavier.** 

Thus is sketched by a contemporary the life of this devoted 
clergyman to the time he became Bishop of Vincennes. In subsequent 
papers it is proposed to examine in greater detail his labors and 
ministrations in Chicago and follow briefly to the end of his career. 


(To be Continued) 


JOSEPH J. THOMPSON. 
Chicago. 


*! The writer is under obligations to Rev. J. M. Gregoire for the loan of the 
Cauthorne book, which is out of print and very rare. 


REV. WILLIAM Dr LA PorTE 


REV. WILLIAM DE LA PORTE 


The death of Rev. William De la Porte which occurred on July 3, 
1920, broke the last direct connection between the Church of pioneer 
days in Chicago and of modern times. 

Father De la Porte was born in Burg-Stainfurt, Westphalia, 
May 11, 1841. He completed his classical and philosophical studies 
at Munster. Coming to America in 1863 he entered the Seminary 
of St. Mary of the Lake, Chicago, after that pioneer educational 
institution came under the directorship of Rev. Dr. John MeMullen, 
and at the very time the Rev. James J. McGovern, D. D., became 
eonnected with the Seminary. He, therefore, came under the tutelage 
of Rev., afterwards Right Rev. John McMullen, Rev. J. J. McGovern, 
D.D., Rey. Thaddeus J. Butler, D.D., Rev. Joseph P. Roles and 
others. 

Having completed his studies, he was ordained priest by Right 
Rev. James Duggan, D.D., on April 7, 1866. 

Accordingly, he became the contemporary of the priests above 
named and of such early pastors and missionaries as Rev. Patrick 
T. McElhearn, Rev. Bernard P. MeGorisk, Rev. James McLaughlin, 
Very Rev. Dennis Dunne, D. D., Rev. Wm. Clowry, Rev. Cornelius 
Smarius, 8. J., and others of that day. 

Father De la Porte began his priestly career as Master of Dis- 
cipline and Professor of Latin in the Seminary of St. Mary of the 
Lake. Within three months, however, on August 5, 1866, he was 
appointed pastor of SS. Peter and Paul Church at Naperville, Illinois, 
sueceeding Rey. Max Albrecht. Here he served for twelve years, 
during which time he completed the church and erected a rectory 
and convent. In 1873 he secured the services of the Franciscan 
Sisters of Joliet. Included in the extensive work of Father De 
LaPorte at SS. Peter and Paul’s are the installation of the great 
pipe organ, the building of the rectory (now occupied by the nuns 
who teach the parish school), the adding of a sanctuary and spire, 
the reconstruction in Gothic design of the interior, and the installa- 
tion of new pews in the church. | 

Father DeLaPorte left Naperville on November 1, 1878, and 
became an instructor in Pio Nono College, St. Francis, Wisconsin, 
where he continued for one year; after which, owing to poor health 
he assisted his loyal friend and advisor, Rev. Peter Fischer at St. 
Anthony’s Church, Chicago, for two years. 


265 


266 REV. FRANCIS J. EPSTEIN 


He was soon, however, to take up the great work of his life. In 
1882, the Most Rev. Patrick Augustine Feehan, D.D. appointed 
Father De la Porte to establish a parish and build the necessary 
church structures at Wheaton, Illinois. The zealous pastor named the 
new parish St. Michael’s, and diligently set to work to bring it to a 
flourishing state. For seven years he lived in the basement of the 
ehurch and himself taught school daily, besides serving the old 
Milton Mission every two weeks. Father De la Porte was an able and 
experienced musician, played the organ well, trained his own organist 
and directed the church choir for many years. From his own slender 
resources he provided $1,000 toward building the rectory and $3,000 
to rebuild the Church, which was destroyed by fire in 1892. In 
recognition of his past meritorious labors, his priestly zeal and his 
untiring efforts the late Archbishop James Edward Quigley, D. D., 
conferred upon Father De la Porte the title of ‘‘Permanent Rector.’’ 

The Church had a very humble beginning in Wheaton. As trustee 
and in name of the parish, John Sauer, Sr., father of Adam Sauer, 
paid $250.00 to Warren Wheaton in 1879 for the purchase of the 
present church site on West Street, which at that time presented only 
a large swampy area. There were but fifteen Catholic families in 
Wheaton proper at the time of the organization of the parish. Serv- 
ices were occasionally held by visiting priests in the basement of 
the interrupted church structure between 1879 and 1882, before 
Father De la Porte’s arrival. The first church, a wooden structure, 
was dedicated May 29, 1882. After the total destruction of this 
first church by fire on February 15, 1892, church services were held 
in the interval of five months, partly in the local Episcopal church, 
but mostly in the county court house. 

In 1894 the additional frame school building on West Street was 
erected by A. J. de Grasse, as contractor, from the old lumber of the 
Milton mission which was discontinued in 1889 because the mission 
church was deprived of its right of way by the road-bed built close 
up to the church by the Great Western Railroad Company. Until 
this time Father De la Porte taught school every day, but in 1894 
the School Sisters of St. Francis from Milwaukee, St. Joseph’s Con- 
vent assumed charge of the Wheaton parish school. 

Father De la Porte’s father was Frank Martin De la Porte, who 
was born in France of French parents. He was left an orphan at 
two years of age and accidentally adopted by a German family from 
Westphalia at that time visiting in his home town. He was taken 
back to Westphalia and given a German education. In early life 
he joined the German Merchant Marine and sailed mostly between 


- 


REV. WILLIAM DE LA PORTE 267 


Germany and the West Indies ports. Later he served the government 
as forester and died in 1872. Father De La Porte’s mother, Antoinette, 
was a Westphalian, and died there in 1883. Eleven children composed 
the De la Porte family group, of which two died in infancy, and the 
others are named according to age as follows: Alexander, Elizabeth, 
Alexandra, William, Sophia, Rosalina, Charles, Francis and Christina. 
At this writing Christina is the only one of the family still living 
and is pensioned by a wealthy German family whom she served as 
tutor for forty years. Of the family four had spent some time here 
in the United States. His sister, Elizabeth, kept house for him three 
years at Naperville in the early 70’s, then returned to the Fatherland 
and married there. His oldest brother, Alexander, came to America 
in 1870, to take up the study of English at the Pio Nono College, 
in St. Francis, Wisconsin, and then returned to Germany to take 
up a large business enterprise. His younger brother, Charles, spent 
many years in Wheaton, married in Chicago and died in Canada. 
The youngest brother, Francis, settled in Brazil and became prosper- 
ous aS manager of a crockery business. 

Father De la Porte inherited the outstanding characteristics of 
his personality from his father. Robust and sturdy, Father De la 
Porte ever remained a model of vigorous manhood and persevering 
energy. He never faltered in the execution of a resolution once 
formed, nor did he fear to expound the truth in the face of strong 
opposition. He was thoroughly equipped to undertake and endure the 
hardships of fifty years of pioncer labors at Naperville and Wheaton. 
He thoroughly mastered the philosophy of correct living, so much so 
that notwithstanding his 54 years of arduous sacrifices in the mis- 
sionary labors of those pioneer days he preserved his energy to such 
an extent that he never acted as an old man of four score years, but 
took with him into old age a robust constitution, a firm step, a 
cheerful spirit, an original humor, and a pleasant companionship. 
It would be Father De la Porte the octogenarian, who would entertain 
his fellow priests and friends at all gatherings with his anecdotes and 
witticisms, and never would the younger generation be put to the 
task of humoring the good old pastor. 

Father De la Porte’s popularity was based on his candor, his 
sincere and persevering faith, his notably exemplary life, and, finally, 
his cordial happy disposition. He was a model priest, in charge of 
a model people, within a model community. His deep learning fitted 
him well for the association with Wheaton’s cultured citizenry. 

From his father he inherited also the love for long sea voyages, 
so that partly owing to this inner craving for the salt waters and 


268 REY. FRANCIS J. EPSTEIN 


partly as a cure for his hay fever, Father De la Porte, who otherwise 
strictly guarded his parish throughout the year and never traveled 
about this country, would annually take a six weeks’ furlough for an 
ocean trip to the Fatherland, where he still had two sisters living, 
one of whom outlived him, and is now far advanced toward four 
score years. 

Upon his retirement in July, 1919, to the neighboring town of 
Lombard to spend his declining years with the local pastor, Rev. 
Anthony Boecker, his devoted parishioners under the direction of his 
successor, the Rey. Francis J. Epstein, organized a triumphal automo- 
bile parade, composed of sixty cars, and escorted their pastor of forty 
long years to Lombard. His greatest. delight, thereafter, was to 
regularly visit Father Epstein on Tuesday of each week, spend the 
day at the old rectory and receive the homage of his loyal parishioners. 

Father De la Porte’s relation to his charge of many years was 
well and feelingly delineated by his successor on the oceasion of the 
grand old pastor’s departure from Wheator.. 

Father Epstein said in part: — 

It is a rather arduous task to assume the position filled so long and 
so honorably by the Venerable Father De la Porte. I am come into 
your midst at a time when your hearts are heavy and your souls sad 
at the imminent departure of your venerable and most respected pastor 
of the past half century. Father De la Porte abides in your memory 
as the spiritual father of the vast majority here before me; he poured 
the life-giving waters of holy baptism over your infant brows, he fed 
you with the Manna of Christ’s Sacred Body, he directed your path 
onward and upward by the warmth of our immortal Faith and when 
sick, weary and dying he strengthened and comforted you with the 
holy oil of salvation. Naturally these relations cannot be broken with- 
vut a ‘‘hurt’’ in the break. Father De la Porte has seen generations 
come and go, he has guided your fathers and your grandfathers 
through earth’s travail to heaven’s eternal portals. Your sires knew 
him as a young priest at Naperville back in 1866, when the Naperville 
parish comprised the whole of DuPage County. His priestly life is an 
open book, easily read and readily understood, because of its striking 
candor and sincerity. He stood out prominently among his fellow- 
priests because he possessed in an eminent degree straightforward 
nobility, conservative Catholicity and deep-rooted conviction, born of 
profound knowledge. As the pioneer of DuPage County his name is 
forever entwined with the history and progress of all surrounding 
communities; his memory, we know, shall always be a benediction. 
Naturally, therefore, this is a day of regrets at his departure from the 


REV. WILLIAM DE LA PORTE 269 


active charge of this church and parish. But happily for us all, the 
pressure of this separation is considerably lightened by the cireum- 
stance that Father De la Porte will continue to abide with us in this 
vicinity, as he had completed plans to make his home in the nearby 
Lombard parish. We trust he will favor us with weekly visits and 
may he ever remember that our rectory is his home, this church his 
ehurch, this parish his people. I know, he shall never become a 
stranger to the thoughts and prayers of you, his faithful people; his 
welfare shall always be my personal concern. May the sunshine of 
your love and devotion gladden his heart during the years of his 
retirement, and be a harbinger of that joy, which reigns in that golden 
Heavenly City, where golden houses are. 

_ To our sincere regret and entirely unexpectedly, Father De la 
Porte fell seriously ill on June 26, 1920, within a year after his 
retirement from the actual pastorate. On July 3rd, Wheaton, all the 
surrounding communities, and in fact the entire Archdiocese of 
Chicago were rather shocked to receive the report of Father De la 
Porte’s death. His body lay in state in St. Michael’s Church, 
Wheaton, where the major part of his life was spent, and for which 
his heart ever throbbed. His devoted parishioners acted as guards 
of honor by day and night. Archbishop George W. Mundelein and 
eighty priests attended the funeral, which was held on July 6, 1920. 
Msgr. Francis A. Rempe, V. G., delivered an eloquent eulogy. The 
Rev. Anthony Boecker of Lombard was celebrant of the Solemn 
Requiem Mass, assisted by Rev. Bernard Schuette of Naperville, and 
Rey. Theodore Boniface of Chicago, as deacon, and subdeacon, re- 
spectively. His successor to the Wheaton pastorate, the Rev. Francis 
J. Epstein, officiated at the grave. The Rev. Henry Hausser of Elgin 
acted as master of ceremonies. The funeral cortege extended from 
the church to the Wheaton Catholic Cemetery, with 2,000 mourners 
on foot, paying homage to the greatest pioneer priest of Du Page 
County, in the most solemn funeral cortege ever witnessed in 
Wheaton. | 


Rev. Francis J. EPSTEIN. 
Wheaton, Ill. 7 


NOTRE DAME, ANTECEDENTS AND 
DEVELOPMENT 


Years before the settlers in New England dared to push inward 
from their seacoast towns, the French explorers and missionaries 
traversed the innermost parts of the present United States. The 
ramblings of these pioneers, sometimes scientifically directed, but often 
suggested by the mere love of adventure, later led to many interesting 
developments. The site now occupied by the University of Notre 
Dame is but one of a thousand spots that were familiarly known to 
the early voyageurs. In fact, we may well suppose that at least two 
hundred and fifty years ago, religious instruction was given and Mass 
said at Notre Dame. 

There were five known routes traversed by the French Pioneers 
as they worked their way southward from the bleak mission dwellings 
in Canada. We shall speak briefly of one that we may understand 
how the present site of Notre Dame became known to nearly all the 
early missionaries. The headquarters of the missions in the 17th 
century was at Quebec. From here the missionaries started their 
voyages. They travelled by canoe up the St. Lawrence, along the 
shores of Lake Ontario, across Lake Erie, Lake Huron, into the straits 
to Mackinac Island which was the second station of importance. 
They then followed the west bank of the Lake Michigan to the present 
site of St. Joseph. Here they usually rested for a week or two. Then 
came the voyage down the St. Joseph River to the Notre Dame Portage. 
Another five miles over land led them to the headwaters of the 
Kankakee which brought them to the Illinois.t Once on the swift 
waters of the Illinois they were carried to the Mississippi, which was 
_the great artery passing through the French settlements and Indian 
Missions. This was the most popular of all the routes taken by the 
early travellers, and as a result, there are few of the famous names 
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that may not be asso- 
ciated with Notre Dame. Of necessity the traveller had to disembark 
at the Portage; the natural charm of the place and the presence of a 
large Indian town caused many of them to linger there for some time. 

In those days, there lived in the Mission House at Mackinae, 
Father Claude Allouez, S. J.2 Here he met the Indians from the 


* Winsor, Narrative and Critical History of America, Vol. 4, p. 224. 
* Tbid. 
270 


NOTRE DAME, ANTECEDENTS AND DEVELOPMENT 271 


different tribes of the lake region. He was particularly impressed 
by readiness with which the Pottawatomi listened to his instructions. 
At their request he returned with them in 1670. He was accompanied 
by two Frenchmen, and after battling with the snow and storm for 
several weeks, reached the Green Bay District. In 1671, he visited 
the Pottawatomi village. A convention of the chiefs was called to 
meet on the south shore of St. Mary’s lake, a spot familiar to every 
Notre Dame student, and here the missionary instructed them on their 
duties toward God. He spent the whole winter among them and 
visited each cabin in the village.? Father Allouez’ assistant at Green 
Bay was Father Louis Andre. The latter visited Notre Dame in 
1673. He found the Indians greatly troubled through fear of a deity 
whom they ealled Mississippi, the god of fishing. The women he 
found to be very devout.* In 1680, Father Allouez built three chapels; 
one on the south shore of St. Mary’s Lake; another at Pokegan 
and the third at the Fort of the Pottawatomi. By a grant of October, 
1686, the Marquis de Nonville, gave to Father Claude Dablon, S. J., 
twenty arpens frontage on the St. Joseph River and an equal depth 
of land at any frontage he might select.2 We are told that a chapel 
and mission house were erected twenty-five leagues from the mouth 
of the river, near a mission established by Father Allouez, and here 
it was that the latter died, August 27, 1689.° 

Father James Marquette reached his mission on the Illinois River 
(present site of Utica in LaSalle County) by passing over the present 
site of Chicago from Lake Michigan to the Desplaines River. But it 
is known that at least on one occasion he returned to the missions 
in the north by the way of St. Joseph River. On this occasion, prob- 
ably in 1673, he remained several days among the Indians in this 
neighborhood. His real mission in these parts was at Kaskaskia, 
Father Allouez succeeded him there in October, 1677.’ 

The most important of the early parties of explorers and mis- 
sionaries to reach here was that of Robert Cavalier de LaSalle and 
his company of Frenchmen. It is certain that LaSalle was here on 
two occasions, and probably came a third time.’ LaSalle’s party 
stopped at St. Joseph in Novemmber, 1674, and erected a log cabin 


® Alerding, History of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, p. 10. 

*Thwaite, Jesuit Relations, Vol. 15, p. 248. 

* At the moment I am unable to refer to my authority for this statement, but 
am confident of the existence of proof thereof. 

® Alderding, History of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, p. 70. 

*Thwaite, Jesuit Relations, Vol. 15, p. 248. 

8 Ibid. 


272 MATTHEW J. WALSH, C. 8. C. 


which served as the first church in southern Michigan.® The lower 
Michigan Peninsula was dedicated to St. Anthony. LaSalle was very 
devoted to the Franciscans and none too friendly to the Jesuits. As 
a result of this bit of feeling Father Allouez and the other Jesuit mis- 
sionaries are said to have made it a point not to meet him or any of 
his party during his stay in this section.!° 

Accompanying LaSalle were three Franciscan Fathers, Zenobe 
Membre, Gabriel de la Ribourde and Louis Hennepin.1! The latter, 
second only to Marquette as an explorer, separated from LaSalle 
after reaching the Illinois River, and explored the Upper Mississippi, 
discovering and naming the falls of St. Anthony at St. Paul. He was 
also the first to give a written account of Niagara.!? In his journal, 
Father Hennepin tells of the voyage down the St. Joseph River. 
When they reached the Portage, he said he blazed a huge tree to 
mark the pomt where they began their overland journey. This he 
said was thirty leagues from the chapel at St. Joseph.1? After years 
of search, this tree was found by the Northern Indiana Historical 
Society,; imbedded under about eight feet of soil, but in a state of 
perfect preservation, and marked as Father Hennepin had described 
it..* The missionary’s description of this place as thirty leagues 
from St. Joseph, helps us to locate with some degree of accuracy the 
burial place of Father Allouez, which would be ae five leagues 
farther up the river. 

The period from the opening of the 18th century until 1763, was 
one of strife in the Western settlements. England and France were 
struggling for supremacy, and in the struggle the Indian settlements 
were deprived of anything like permanent pastors. Little more in- 
formation than the names of the priests who occasionally visited them, 
has come down to us. In 1712, we hear of Father Cleardon, advocate 
of temperance among the Indians. Then there was Father Joseph 
Marest, S. J., who won the natives by composing little verses in their 
language. Records also speak of Periot, Berger, DeVill, Mermet, 
Graver, Vivier, Lamonier and Portier. The last missionary to visit 
the Pottowatomi before the peace of 1763, was Father Julian Duver- 
nay, whose residence was at the St. Francis Xavier mission at Vin- 
cennes. All of these missionaries were Jesuits. 


® Ibid. 

* Alerding, History of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, p. 10. 

“Parkman, LaSalle and the Discovery of the Great West, p. 160, et. seq. 
® Tbid. 

9 Toid. 

* Leeper, Local Foot-Prints, p. 20. 


NOTRE DAME, ANTECEDENTS AND DEVELOPMENT 273 


Following closely on the peace of Paris in 1763, came the Quebec 
Act. By this act, the British granted to the people in the lands re- 
eently acquired from the French, full freedom in the practice of their 
religion. Under the reorganization that followed, the present Notre 
Dame came under the Ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Bishop of 


Quebee. 


The Indians here had been neglected since the death of Father Du- 
vernay and in 1764, Bishop Briand commissioned Rev. Pierre Gibault 
in charge of the mission at Kaskaskia to care for the Indians on the St. 
Joseph River. At best, they received only irregular attention from 
this distant post. This seems evident from a long letter addressed to 
the Sacred Congregation of the Propagation of the Faith in 1791, by 
the Rev. Edmund Burke, an Irish priest, who was acting as professor 
in the seminary at Quebec. He called attention to the fact that the 
whole lake region was in a deplorable condition since the suppression 
of the Jesuits. Father Burke was ordered to care for the neglected 
Indians and: from his little mission at Fort Miami on the Maumee 
River, near Perrysburg, Ohio, did his best to minister to this whole 
district.” From the time of Father Burke till the arrival of Rev. 
Stephen Thodore Badin, all religious activities in Southern Michigan 
and Northern Indiana were intrusted to the care of the Sulpitian 
Missions. In 1830, at the instance of Bishop Fenwick, a visitation 
of this region was made by the Reverend Frederick Resé.1° Father 
Resé was later the first Bishop of Detroit. Father Resé’s report 
led the Bishop to call Father Badin from the Kentucky mis- 
sions. Though the Indians in the immediate neighborhood of Notre 
Dame were to be the special care of Father Badin, his missionary field 
was co-existant with the Northwest Territory. From the beginning, 
Father Badin had great success among the Indians. He baptized 
seventy the first few months he was in charge of the mission.17 He 
was often assisted in his work by Father Louis DeSeille who had an 
Indian Mission at Pokegan, just across the Michigan State line. The 
boast of Father Badin was his little mission near the lakes of Notre 
Dame. The proto-priest of America once told Father Sorin how 
after a strenuous day among his Indians, he stood gazing in admira- 
tion over the two pretty lakes, and the thought flashed through his 
mind that such a beautiful: spot should be secured for God. The 
result of this inspiration was the purchase in 1830, of five hundred 


% Chronicles of Notre Dame, (manuscript). 
* Thid. 
" Baptismal Register, Notre Dame. 


274 MATTHEW J. WALSH, C. S. C. 


and twenty-four acres of land at $1.25 per acre.'® Even at this time 
the district was known to Catholics St. Mary’s of the Lake; among 
non-Catholies it was merely called the Lake. The land was then sold 
to Bishop Simon William Gabriel Bruté, and later transferred by him 
to the Rev. M. Bocke. The latter, however, failed to live up to the 
conditions of building a college and a novitiate for brothers.’ Shortly 
before this transfer, Father Badin erected a new mission house on the 
shores of St. Mary’s Lake and the little log chapel served as the centre 
of Catholic activities for all Northern Indiana and Southern Michi- 
gan.2° During the Jubilee year, this was the church that was visited 
by Catholics from miles around. 


In 1845, Father Badin, then 82 years of age, revisited Notre 
Dame. He came to meet Bishop Henni, newly appointed to the See 
of Milwaukee. On this occasion, he gave to the Community all that 
he possessed, six thousand dollars, and in return received a yearly 
allowance of four hundred dollars till the time of his death, which 
occurred in Cincinnati in 1853. He was buried in the Cathedral in 
that city. His remains were brought to Notre Dame in 1906, and now 
rest on the spot sanctified by the apostolic men whose lives seem to 
have brought Notre Dame a lasting endowment of God’s blessing. 


It seems that Father Badin remained in active charge of the mis- 
sion at Notre Dame till 1832. In May, 1884, Bishop Bruté says he 
visited ‘‘Mr. DeSeille’s Mission and the Rev. Badin’s vacant estab- 
lishment at South Bend.’’*? In February, 1835, he made a second 
visitation and said, ‘‘He inspected the property near South Bend, 
transferred to him by Father Badin before his departure for Cin- 
cinnati, and the vacant house of the Sisters.’’**? On this second visita- 
tion he was accompanied by Father DeSeille. 


The Rey. Louis DeSeille removed his headquarters from Pokegan 
to Notre Dame in 1832. He was known through all the mission area 
as a man of great sanctity. The Indians firmly believed that he had 
the power of prophecy, and seemed to have good reason for their be- 
lief. Little is known about the particulars of his labors. He is best 
remembered by the circumstances of his death. In 1837 he visited his 
old mission at Pokegan and there spent two weeks among his Indians. 
On his departure he told them they would not see him again as he 
had a great journey to perform. As soon as he arrived at Notre 


8% Scholastic Annual, Notre Dame, 1881. 

* Chronicles of Notre Dame, (manuscript). 

** Howard, History of the University of Notre Dame, p. 32. 
*t Scholastic Annual, Notre Dame, 1881, p. 61. 


NOTRE DAME, ANTECEDENTS AND DEVELOPMENT 275 


Dame, he sent two Indian messengers, one to Chicago and one to Lo- 
-gansport, asking that a priest come to attend him. The priest did not 
come, and Father DeSeille, who was living in a room partitioned off 
from the chapel, asked to be brought before the altar, after being 
vested in surplice and stole. His weeping Indian attendant supported 
him as the priest drew forth the ciborium and administered to him- 
self the Holy Viaticum. He remained in thanksgiving for about an 
hour and then asked to be carried back to his room, where he died. 
The Indians remembering the parting words of their friend, began 
to fear for him and set out for Notre Dame, only to find him dead. 
For three days they stood about his body, mourning and refusing to 
let anyone touch the corpse. The town authorities had to use force 
before the body could be buried. It was interred in the little chapel 
where he died, but at present rests in the vault under the sanctuary of 
the University Church.** 


The last of what may be called the early missionaries of Notre 
Dame, was the Rev. Benjamin Petit. He was a native of Rennes, 
France, and had already succeeded well as a lawyer when he chanced 
to meet Bishop Bruté, who was visiting his town in 1835. The young 
man’s mind became fixed with the stories told by the bishop and he 
decided to take up the work of a missionary in Indiana. The death 
of Father DeSeille hastened his ordination. He was raised to the 
priesthood at Vincennes, October 14, 1837, and the following day 
set out to replace the revered apostle of the Pottowatomi. Like his 
predecessor, he was intensely religious. We may judge of his charac- 
ter from a letter written to his mother the day after his ordination. 
‘‘T am now a priest and the hand that is writing to you has this day 
borne Jesus Christ. Jfow can I express to you all that I would wish 
to say. My hand is now consecrated to God; my voice has a power 
which God Himself obeys. How my lips trembled this morning at my 
first Mass, when at the Memento, I recommended you ali to God! 
And tomorrow I shall do the same, and after tomorrow every day of 
my life. Within two days I start hence all alone on a journey of three 
hundred miles, and yet not alone, for I shall journey in company 
with my God, Whom I shall carry on my bosom day and night, and 
shall convey with me the instruments of the Great Sacrifice, halting 
from time to time in the depths of the forest, and converting the 


2 Tbid. 
*® Tbid. 


276 MATTHEW J. WALSH, C.S. C. 


heart of some poor Catholic into the palace of the King of Glory. — 
From Mass to Mass—to go forward ever to heaven,—I had always 
desired a mission among the savages; there is but one such among the 
Indians, and it is I, whom the Pottowatomies call their Father Black 
Robe.’ During the first few months at the new mission, Father 
Petit, had haptized three hundred Indians. When the Bishop visited 
him a few months after his coming, two hundred were confirmed in 
the little chapel by the lake.2? The peaceful life at the Mission, how- 
ever, was soon to be disturbed. Settlers were coming in and the policy 
of placing the Indians on reservations followed. The Pottowatomi 
were taken from the home they had so long occupied and given a 
reservation near the present town of Plymouth, Indiana. The Indians 
remained there for only a short space when they were ordered into 
Missouri. Father Petit, devoted to his flock, accompanied them on 
their long march, and then retraced his steps, weary and heavy of 
heart. He never again reached Notre Dame, but died at St. Louis, 
February 10, 1839, as Bishop Bruté says, ‘‘a martyr of Charity.’’”® 
At the time of his death he was only twenty-seven years of age. His 
remains were brought to Notre Dame by Father Sorin, in 1856. 
During the interval between the death of Father Petit and the 
coming of Father Sorin, Notre Dame was a mission of Chicago. 
Notre Dame is favored in holding the remains of these three saintly 
men, Badin, DeSeille and Petit, three of the holiest missionaries of 
the Church in America. 


The revered founder of Notre Dame had the greatest admiration 
for the saintly missionaries who had preceded him. Much of the good 
that resulted from his own useful life he credits to the blessings won 
by the sacrifices of the heroic priests who nurtured the Church in the 
early days. Almost the last words written by Father Sorin were a 
tribute to those glorious souls, beginning with Allouez and ending 
with Petit, the real pioneers of Notre Dame. ‘‘ Here is a little galaxy 
of names,’’ says Father Sorin, ‘‘not often met with in any place not 
celebrated; the venerable proto-priest of America, Father Badin, the 
saintly DeSeille, the heroic Benjamin Petit, succeeded one another 
here. Here they were visited from Bardstown and Vincennes by the 
immortal bishops Flaget and Bruté; here they prayed together, as 


** Howard, History of the University of Notre Dame, p. 36. 
*° Thid. 
*° Chronicles of Notre Dame, (manuscript). 


NOTRE DAME, ANTECEDENTS AND DEVELOPMENT 277 


they now continue to do in Heaven, for blessings on a spot they so 
dearly loved. Saintly souls, men of God, here passed and lived here, 
and the precious remains of two of them speak yet in our midst the 
eloquent language of the purest zeal and most unbounded charity that 
ever prompted and adorned the hearts of the ‘* Apostles of Christ.’’** 


(Rev.) Marruew J. Wausu, C. S. C. 
Notre Dame. 


* Sorin, Circular Letters, p. 230, 


ST. JOSEPH’S, THE CATHEDRAL CHURCH 
OF THE DIOCESE OF BARDSTOWN, 
KENTUCKY 


Few buildings of any kind in the original territory of the United 
States have such a romantic and absorbing interest for the student of 
American Ecclesiastical History as the Church of St. Joseph at Bards. 
town, Kentucky. It was the Cathedral of the pioneer and patriarch, 
Bishop Flaget; 1t was consecrated on the day of its opening, August 
8, 1819; it was the first consecrated temple of God recorded in the 
United States; it has been the seene of most remarkable events: it 
witnessed the ordination of priests whose lives fairly shine as models 
of duty, labor, sacrifice and sanctity; it saw the unction of consecra- 
tion poured upon bishops who shed a lustre over important Sees; it 
heard the voices of the the most eloquent of America’s sons in the 
priesthood and hierarchy speaking to audiences as intelligent and cul- 
tured as anywhere on earth; it has probably had a more remarkable 
series of pastors than any church in the country, and this remarkable 
edifice stands today as strong, as bright and as perfect as at any time 
in its more than century of existence. 

When Bishop Flaget came to Kentucky, in 1811, there was no 
ehurch in Bardstown. <A small log chapel nearly two miles distant 
was the nearest place of worship, but no priest was stationed nearer 
than St. Stephen’s, about fifteen miles away. Here, too, the chapel 
was a small log structure, and in it Bishop Flaget was regularly in- 
stalled and took possession of his vast diocese. The site of this first 
Pro-Cathedral of the West is now occupied by the Mother-house of the 
Sisters of Loretto. The simple and touching manner in which this 
Prince of the Church entered his diocese and set up his throne among 
his people amid the wilds of the forest, is graphically described by an 
abler historian : | 

‘‘The party reached Louisville on the 4th of June. Here they were met by 
the good M. Nerinckx, who escorted them to Bardstown and to St. Stephen’s, the 
residence of M. Badin. They reached Bardstown on the 9th, and St. Stephen’s in 
the evening of the 11th of the same month. Here they were welcomed by a large 
concourse of people, assembled to see their new Bishop for the first time, as well 
as by nearly all of the Catholic clergymen then in Kentucky. Among the latter 
there were present, the Rev. Messrs. Badin, Fenwick, Wilson, Tuite, Nerinckx, 
O’Flynn, besides M. David, and the Canadian priest who accompanied the Bishop, 
making in all eight priests—more than had ever before been seen together in 


Kentucky. 
278 


CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF BARDSTOWN, KY. 279 


‘¢The enthusiastic joy of the good people on seeing their Bishop among them, 
and the ceremonies which took place on the occasion, are so well described by M. 
Badin, in the Statement of the Missions of Kentucky, already often quoted, that 
we cannot perhaps do better than simply to translate from that document. 

‘¢ «The Bishop there (at St. Stephen’s) found the faithful kneeling on the 
grass, and singing canticles in English; the country women were nearly all dressed 
in white, and many of them were still fasting, though it was then four o’clock 
in the evening, they having indulged the hope to be able on that day to assist at 
his Mass, and to receive the Holy Communion from his hands. An altar had been 
prepared at the entrance of the first court, under a bower composed of four small 
trees which overlapped it with their foliage. Here the Bishop put on his pontifi- 
eal robes. After the aspersion of the holy water, he was conducted to the chapel 
in procession, with the singing of the Litany of the Blessed Virgin; and the whole 
function closed with the prayers and ceremonies prescribed for the occasion in 
the Roman Pontifical.’ ’’”* 


In 1812 Bishop Flaget removed to St. Thomas’, about three miles 
from Bardstown, where his new Ecclesiastical Seminary had been 
established, and where a log chapel had been built, and there, with the 
assistance of his students and a couple of mechanies, he erected a neat 
brick church, 30x65 in size, which he opened for services in 1816. In 
this church the Bishop pontificated solemnly, attended by Father 
David and the students, and held several ordinations with all the pomp 
and ceremony that befit such occasions. Here he began his active cam- 
paign for his real cathedral. In those days Bardstown was the most 
important town in Western Kentucky, and it was in its vicinity that 
the early Catholic colonists settled. It was ‘‘established by the legisla- 
ture of Virginia in 1788, as Bairdstown, after David Baird, one of the 
original proprietors of the 100 acres on which it was laid off.’” At 
that time it is likely that there was not a Catholic in the town. ‘Two 
years later there were but two—Anthony Sanders, an emigrant from 
Maryland,* and Nehemiah Webb, a convert from Pennsylvania, both 
unmarried men.’’* Webb was a millright, and built and operated a 
mill at Bardstown. His son, Benedict Joseph, was the founder of the 
Catholic Advocate, the first Catholic newspaper in Kentucky. He was 
always a doughty champion of the Catholic Church, and his great his- 
torical work, The Centenary of Catholicity in Kentucky, is beyond all 
valuation. Anthony Sanders was a hatter by trade, and did a good 


1 Spalding, Sketches of Kentucky, pp. 190-191. 

2 Collins, History of Kentucky, Vol II, p. 644. 

*The Catholic Advocate of Jan. 12, 1839, printed this notice: ‘‘Dizp—On 
Friday, Jan. 4, 1839, Anthony Saunders, at the age of 75. Born near Lancaster, 
Pa., he came to Bardstown in 1797, being the first Catholic to live within the 
limits of that town.’’ 

‘Webb, Centenary of Catholictty m Kentucky, p. 57. 


280 REV. W. J. HOWLETT 


business, accumulating considerable wealth, as wealth was counted in 
those days. He was very charitable, and the ground upon which the 
Cathedral was built was virtually a donation from him.’ Others came 
soon afterwards, but for years the major part of the congregation 
consisted of settlers upon land in the surrounding country. The names 
of most of them have happily been preserved in history by Mr. Webb.*® 

Bishop Flaget was reluctant about commencing his cathedral. His 
people generally were poor, and he did not wish to burden himself with 
debt, but friends, notably Fathers David and Chabrat, advised him to 
begin and trust to Providence. He secured a subscription of from 
twelve to fourteen thousand dollars, of which Bardstown subscribed 
five thousand.’ Thus encouraged he began the work, but with the 
remark: ‘‘I would heartily wish to live at the See which Rome estab- 
lished, but still more I wish that Thy will, O God, should be done!”’ 
The amount of money seems to us ridiculously small with which to 
begin a cathedral, but those were fortunate and honest times, without 
trusts and combines, when the raw material was at the door and there 
was no penalty for using it. The bricks were burned on the ground, 
and the timber was from the surrounding forests, and such timber as 
to permit the use of hard wood throughout the building and to make 
. the interior finish in solid walnut. The workers, too, were reliable, and 
of this church and that of Holy Cross, built in 1823 by Father 
Nerinckx, Webb says: 


‘<The brick masonry of both churches named was the handiwork of Col. James 
M. Brown of Bardstown. This gentleman was not only a master of his trade, but 
was never accused of slighting his work in any particular.’ 


I am of the opinion also that the church of St. Thomas was built 
by the same hand, and these three churches, the only remaining ones 
from pioneer days, are yet wonders of solidity and preservation. 

The plans of the building were drawn by Mr. John Rogers,® an able 
architect who had come from Baltimore and settled in Bardstown, and 
under his superintendence the work was begun and prosecuted to the 
end. 


‘‘The corner-stone of the cathedral was laid July 16, 1816, and Father David 
preached on the occasion to a very large audience a luminous discourse explanatory 


° Ibid, p. 58. 

* Ditto, p. 63. 

"Spalding, Sketches of Kentucky, p. 243. 

* Webb, Centenary of Catholicity, p. 43, note. 


* His son, Charles A. Rogers, founded the C, A. Rogers Book Co., now the 
Rogers Church Goods Co, of Louisville, Ky. 


KENTUCKY 


Sp. JOSEPH’S PROTO CATHEDRAL, BARDSTOWN 


“ 


Courtesy The Record, Louisville, Kentucky. 


CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF BARDSTOWN, KY. 281 


of the impressive ceremonial. Four priests from St. Rose and all the seminarians 
were in attendance.’ ’”” 


At times the work proceeded very slowly for want of funds, for 
some of the subscribers failed to pay their subscription, owing to the 
coming of hard times, but new collections were taken up, and Bishop 
Flaget himself contributed from his own limited store. Of course, the 
cost was beyond the original fund, but that was expected; the original 
fund was a starter, and the full cost was far beyond this. I doubt if 
anyone now knows what the completed building cost. It was not en- 
tirely finished at the time of its consecration; only the main body of 
the church was completed then, the spire and portico were built later. 
As completed it is deseribed thus: 


‘*The Cathedral is a neat and beautiful specimen of architecture, of the 
Corinthian order ;** and its dimensions are one hundred and twenty feet in length 
—including the beautiful semicircular sanctuary—by seventy feet in breadth. The 
ceiling of the center aisle is arched, and flanked on each side with a row of four 
beautiful columns,” besides the pilasters of the sanctuary. The ceiling of the side 
aisles is groined; and it was intended by the architect to have the side walls 
decorated with pilasters in the same style of architecture, but the limited funds of 
the Church did not permit him to carry out this plan. The steeple is a well pro- 
portioned and beautifully tapering spire, nearly one hundred and fifty feet in 
height, to the summit of the cross with which it is surmounted. It is provided 
with a large bell, procured from France by the present Coadjutor Bishop of the 
Diocese.¥ 

An organ and two superb paintings, the one representing the Crucifixion, and 
the other the conversion of William, Duke of Brienne, by St. Bernard, were placed 
in the church. They had been procured from Belgium by the venerable M. 
Nerinckx, and were by him presented to the new Cathedral. To these paintings 
were subsequently added several others which has been presented to the Bishop by 
the King of Naples and the Sovereign Pontiff, Leo XII. 

‘“The Cathedral was also provided with rich suits of vestments, golden can- 
dlesticks, a golden tabernacle and other splendid ornaments, presented to the 
Bishop by the present King and Queen of the French.“ In a word, the Cathedral 
is a beautiful and well decorated edifice, and it will long remain an evidence of 
the zeal and liberality of ovr Bishop and of the Catholics of the’ congregation 
attached to it, as well as a monument of the ability and exquisite taste of its 
architect.’ 


“Spalding, Life of Bishop Flaget, p. 211. 
™ Bishop Spalding modifies this later, and calls it ‘‘Roman Corinthian,’’ and 
notes that ‘‘the portico is supported by six beautiful columns of the Ionic order.’’ 


“The core of each of the columns is the trunk of a huge cedar tree. 

*% Bishop Chabrat. 

* When Bishop Flaget was in Havana (1798-1801), he met the Duke of 
Orleans and his brothers, and showed them special favors in time of need. When 
the Duke was Louis Phillipe of France he did not forget the Bishop. A bill in 
Congress, in 1832, refunded the duties on these gifts. 

* Spalding, Sketches, etc., pp. 244-6. 


282 REV. W. J. HOWLETT 


A Flemish pamphlet written by Father Nerinckx during his last 
visit to Belgium, from which he returned in September, 1821, gives 
us some additional particulars :7° 


‘*T might have told you how they managed to build the steeple of the Bards- 
town Cathedral. The funds were exhausted, but the architect, who gave proof of 
the most ardent zeal for the completion of his work, bethought himself of a new 
plan to raise the necessary funds. The clock which I brought from Ninove, in 
Flanders, and which is a truly wonderful timepiece, suggested to him the means 
of exciting the people to renewed exertions. He placed it in the front wall of 
the church, the two little silver-toned bells striking the hours. The people acknowl- 
edged that so beautiful a clock should adorn a steeple, and they consented to a 
subscription, which realized enough to complete the work.’’ 


Also he says: ‘‘Altars, confessionals, organ, bells, ete., are still 
wanting. It has cost, so far, about $20,000.’’ Father Nerinckx brought 
the organ from Belgium on this trip. It was the first pipe organ in 
Kentucky, and when replaced many years afterwards by a larger in- 
strument it was given to the Sisters of Loretto by Bishop Martin J. 
Spalding, and by this community it is, in perfect condition, treasured 
at the Mother-house as a precious heirloom from their saintly founder, 
Father Nerinekx. The paintings, and much of the church furniture 
procured by Father Nerinckx came from the salvage when the churches 
of Belgium were sacked by the French soldiery during the French 
Revolution. Many of these things were very valuable, and Father 
Nerinckx parceled them out among the churches of Kentucky. The 
large painting of the Crucifixion, which serves as the altarpiece in the 
old Cathedral, is one of these. It is by the Flemish artist, Van Brie, 
and is a work of art and merit. Another, the martyrdom of St. Bar- 
tholomew, is still more valuable, being probably a Van Dyke, or a 
Rubens. Seven others of unknown origin hang upon the walls. 

Of vestments also, Father Nerinckx brought a large quantity; in 
fact, he supplied practically all the vestments in the Cathedral and all 
the other churches in Kentucky, nearly a hundred sets of which he 
brought, including over thirty chasubles, besides copes and dalmaties, 
Albs, linens, ete., for the Doninicans, which he had solicited from their 
friends in Belgium.*? Bishop Spalding said that ‘‘the valuables which 
he procured exceeded the amount of $15,000.’’4* and that means that 
many more thousands would not replace today at current prices. Some 


* Maes, Life of Rev. Charles Nerinckz, pp. 392 seqq. In 1825 Bishop Flaget 
writes that the Cathedral had cost so far $22,600. 

* Maes, Life of Nerinckz, p. 355. 

* Sketches of Kentucky, p. 198. 


CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF BARDSTOWN, KY. 283 


of the finer vestments are preserved until the present, and are of such 
richness that they are used only for the great solemnities. 


The building of the Cathedral occupied three years, and of this and 
its dedication Bishop Spalding says: 

‘‘The work continued to progress, and the new Cathedral was nearly com- 
pleted by the summer of 1819. On the 8th day of August of this year it was 
solemnly dedicated to Almighty God, under the invocation of St. Joseph. With 
a heart overflowing with joy and gratitude, the Bishop performed the magnificent 
ceremony of the dedication, according to all the rites prescribed in the Roman 
Pontifical. He was on this day surrounded by almost all his clergy, and by the 
seminarians, and the ceremony was performed in the presence of an immense 
concourse of people from all parts of the surrounding country. Long and grate- 


fully will that day be remembered by the Catholics of Kentucky. It marks an era 
in the history of our infant church.’’” 


Ben. J. Webb, who, as a boy, was present at the dedication, tells us 
something more of it.2° Bishop-elect David, the head of the seminary, 
gave an explanatory discourse after the dedicatory exercises, but the 
sermon proper, after the Gospel, was preached by the Rev. Robert A. 
Abell. Father Abell was a native of Kentucky, educated at Bishop 
Flaget’s seminary and ordained at St. Thomas’ May 10, 1818, together 
with Charles Coomes and Auguste Jeanjean. Since his ordination he 
had been charged with all the missions of Kentucky west of Nelson 
County. Naturally a fluent speaker, he had ample opportunity to 
eultivate this gift, for he was daily confronted with preachers whose 
stock in trade was misrepresentation of the Catholic Church, and his 
publie discussions were many and varied. Most of the other priests 
were men to whom the English language did not come easily, and 
Bishop Flaget wanted it on that occasion from one ‘‘to the manner 
born.’”’ 


Father Abell’s regular duties, and an unexpected sick call from a 
distanee, did not allow him much time for preparation, but the occa- 
sion itself was his inspiration. He spoke of the struggles of the newly 
planted Church in Kentucky, its poverty, the burdens of its priests 
and people, its humble log cabins as shelters for the Most High seeking 
souls in the wilderness; of the joy of the people at the coming of a 
Bishop among them, of his longing for a more worthy home for the 
Lord, and the history of its realization and dedication as God’s house, 
where in His presence the living would come for generations to 
strengthen their faith, and meet their dead in the great Sacrifice of- 


” Sketches, etc., p. 244. 
* Centenary of Catholicity, pp. 270 seqq. 


284 REV. W. J. HOWLETT 


fered for both living and dead. These ideas, and more, as he developed 
them, made a profound impression, and the historian could say: 


‘‘The sermon preached by Father Abell at the consecration of the Cathedral 
Church of St. Joseph, Bardstown, created possibly, more favorable criticism from 
persons supposed to be capable of judging of oratorical display, than any other 
that had been previously delivered in that part of the State. Among the lawyers 
of the place, especially, and the bar of Bardstown included at the time some of 
the master minds of the country, the criticism evoked by it was in the highest 
degree commendatory.’ 


Fifty years later, the same ‘‘Grand Old Man’’ was present in the 
sanctuary when the Golden Jubilee of that day was celebrated in an 
equally solemn mantier, but, alas! time and hard labor had broken him. 
A younger man replaced him in the pulpit, but in spite of his years 
and infirmities, he arose and spoke with something of his old time fire, 
to recount the glories of the past, to recall its heroes and praise the 
deeds of those ‘‘men of renown,’’ and when he was ‘‘compelled to 
desist from lack of strength to stand longer, it is doubtful if there was 
a dry eye in the church.’”? The old hero was called to enter God’s | 
eternal temple on the 28th of June, 1873. . 


Again, fifty years later, a grand-nephew of Father Abell, the Rev. 
John J. Abell, was the orator of the centennial, and it is hardly neces- 
sary to say that the most taking points of his sermon were those where 
he recalled the days of fifty and one hundred years ago. 


Many other memorable days might also be recorded, and they began 
from that time. On the Sunday following the dedication, the first con- 
secration of a bishop in the West took place, when Bishop David was 
consecrated as ecoadjutor to Bishop Flaget. As no assistant bishops 
could be present for this occasion, these offices were filled by Father 
Nerinckx, and Father Wilson, O. P. Four other bishops were conse- 
crated here: Francis Patrick Kenrick on the 6th of June, 1830, Guy 
Ignatius Chabrat July 20, 1834, Richard Pius Miles September 16, 
1838, and John McGill November 10, 1850. Scores of priests also 
were ordained here during the twenty-two years it remained the head 
of the diocesan churches. In 1841 the Episcopal See of Bardstown 
was transferred to Louisville. 

As for its preachers, the list of its pastors is a guarantee of their 
ability. Among them were the finest minds in the country, and in 
addition, the importance of Bardstown and its bishops drew to it, at 
some time or other, nearly all the prominent ecclesiastics of America. 


* Webb, Centenary of Catholicity, p. 273, note. 
* Webb, Centenary of Catholictty, p. 274. 


CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF BARDSTOWN, KY. 285 


Bishop England of Charleston, Bishop Hughes of New York, Bishop 
Purcell of Cincinnati, Bishop Kenrick of St. Louis, Bishop McGill of 
Richmond, Bishops Kenrick and Spalding of Baltimore, Bishop 
Spalding of Peoria, and others, besides the great. preachers of the 
regular and secular clergy. And for audiences, they could not have 
asked for greater intelligence and appreciation. The bar of Kentucky 
was famous for its great lawyers,** and Bardstown was one of its prin- 
cipal places of gathering. They all appreciated a good sermon, and 
they were often seen at St. Joseph’s. And the regular congregation 
was not lacking in learning, for a great portion of it was educated in 
the collegiate and convent schools in and around the town. 


The pastors of St. Joseph’s Church were: 1819-1827, Rt. Rev. John 
Bb. David; 1827-1830, Rev. Francis Patrick Kenrick, later Archbishop - 
of Baltimore; 1830-1835, Rev. Ignatius A. Raynolds, later Bishop of 
Charleston ; 1833-1838, Rev. Martin John Spalding, later Archbishop 
of Baltimore; 1838-1840, Rev. James M. Lancaster, later V. G. and 
Adm. of Covington; 1840-1841, Rev. Charles H. LeLuynes, later 
prominent Jesuit in New York; 1841-1845, Rev. Martin J. Spalding 
again; 1845-1848, Rev. Benedict J. Spalding, later V. G. and Adm. of 
Louisville; 1848-1868, Jesuits in charge of Church and College; 1868- 
1872, Rev. Peter DeFraine, President of St. 'Joseph’s College; 1872- 
1879, Rev. John F. Reed; 1879-1920, Rev. C. J. O’Connell, author, and 
President of College ; 1920-——_, Rev. Wm. D. Pike. 


During the pastorate of Father O’Connell the interior of the 
church was entirely, and beautifully renovated, and the exterior was 
supplied with the statues for the empty niches, statues of Bishops 
Flaget and Spalding were erected on the grounds, and a victory group 
in bronze to commemorate the young men of the parish who fell in the 
world war. The old Cathedral of Bishop Flaget (his throne is still in 
it) is well worth a visit. 


Rev. W. J. How Lert. 
Nerinz, Kentucky. 


*8 James Buchanan, later President of the United States, once located in Ken- 
tucky, as he says, ‘‘expecting to be a great man there, but every lawyer he came 
in contact with was his equal, and half of them his superiors, and so he gave it 
up.’’—(Collins, Htstory of Kentucky, Vol, II, p. 311. 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN—PIERRE 


GIBAULT 
(Seventh Paper) 


The readers of the ILLINoIs Caruouic HisroricAL Review have 
been promised all the information obtainable on the life and labors 
of the devoted and patriotic priest, Very Rev. Pierre Gibault, and in 
keeping with this promise the writer takes pleasure in reproducing 
with notes and comment an appreciation which he found on a recent 
trip to Vincennes, the scene of many of Father Gibault’s labors. 

Henry Cawthorne, during the first half of the nineteenth century 
was a distinguished citizen of Vincennes, Indiana, and deeply inter- 
ested in the history of his native State and City. He was for his day 
a successful investigator and quite a prolific writer. Amongst other 
works he wrote and published a ‘‘ History of Vincennes”’ and ‘‘A His- 
tory of St. Francis Xavier Cathedral.’’ 

He was acquainted not only with what was written about the 
historic old settlement and the historic characters that passed through 
the record of the place but with all the traditions as well. He is 
largely a first hand witness and his appreciation of Father Gibault 
is therefore of exceeding interest. 

Of Father Gibault who was at various times missionary and pastor 
of St. Francis Xavier Church Mr. Cawthorne writes: 

Pierre Gibault, as he is called by Father Alerding in his history 
of the diocese, by Edmond Mallet of the Carroll Institute, Washington 
City, and by others, or Peter Gibault, according to Shea, is one of the 
distinguished, and ever to be remembered, missionary priests who 
labored in the North West from 1768 to a few years after the close of 
that century. He is justly entitled to the cognomen which has been 
given him of ‘‘the patriot priest of the West.’’ He was born in the 
city of Montreal, Canada, on the 7th day of April, 1737. He was the 
son of Peter Gibault and Mary St. Jeau. 

When he first felt a call to the ministry, at the same time, like 
many other missionary priests, he also felt that God designed that he 
should become a missionary among the Indians and Canadian settlers 
in the North West. He was accordingly educated for this missionary 
work. He received his education at the Seminary at Quebee upon 
funds derived from the Cahokia mission property.1 On the comple- 


*The Seminary of Quebec was established by Bishop Francis Montmorency 
Laval in 1663, expressly for the purpose of training priests for Indian missions, 
286 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 287 


tion of his studies, he was ordained a priest at Quebec, on the 19th day 
of March, 1768, on the feast day of St. Joseph. 


Immediately after his ordination he set out for the Illinois coun- 
try, where he was destined to spend the remainder of his life in the 
arduous work of a missionary priest in a wild and sparsely settled 
country, partly surrounded by savage and uncivilized races, and 
where he was also destined to acquire and exert a controlling influence 
over the people, and to determine in a great measure the political 
destiny of that vast region of country. 


The first mission in the district assigned him which he reached, 
was Michillimackinac,’ where he arrived in 1768.3 Here he immedi- 
ately commenced his missionary work with the zeal and energy that 
he displayed through his entire career. This mission had been with- 
out a priest for several years, ever since the departure of Father Du 
Jaunay* from there, which was prior to 1763, as in that year he was 
at Arbre Croche. Of course spiritual matters at this mission, on ac- 


and accordingly the priests ordained from the Seminary were called priests of the 
foreign missions. The references to these priests, frequently found as ‘‘ Fathers 
of the Societé des Etrangeres,’’ is taken from the title of the Society of Foreign 
Missions at Paris, which was established in 1658. The Seminary of Quebec was 
apparently patterned after the folndation in Paris, but I have found no evidence 
that it was in any way connected with the Paris foundation. Neither the Paris 
nor the Quebec society was a religious order; each was simply a congregation, a 
society of secular priests united as members of the same body, not by vows, but 
by the rule approved by the Holy See, by community of object and fellowship in 
the Seminary. (See Society of Foreign Missions in Paris, Catholic Encyclopedia, 
Vol. 14, p. 79.) The priests of this Quebec society were assigned to the Tamaroa 
Indian mission in Illinois in 1699, the center of the Tamaroa Indian country at 
that time being what became known as Cahokia. The town which succeeded the 
Indian village still exists just east of Hast St. Louis, Illinois. The mission was 
regularly established by the Fathers of the Foreign Missions in 1699, and con- 
tinued in their charge until 1763, when the last of the Fathers of the Foreign 
Missions, Abbe Forget Duberger, left the mission for France. Fiye years later 
Rey. Pierre Gibault, who had been educated in'the Seminary of Quebec, while it 
was yet the school of the Fathers of the Foreign Missions, was sent to [llinois. 
On this account it is stated that ‘‘he received his education .... upon the funds 
derived from the Catholic mission property.’’ The Fathers had procured a grant 
of land from the government, which yielded an income, part of which was paid to 
the Seminary at Quebec. 

?Gibault to Bishop Briand, published in ILLINOIS CATHOLIC HisToRIcAL RE- 
VIEW, Vol. IV, pp. 197-198. 

 § Ibid. 

‘The Jesuits had maintained a mission in this vicinity for many years, inter- 
rupted occasionally but re-established. Father Marquette was for a time located 
here, The modern name is Mackinaw. 


a 
D Gia, 


288 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


count of this long interregnum without the ministrations of a priest, 
had been neglected, and the devotion of the people was very weak. 
But Father Gibault, in a very short time, revolutionized, as it were, 
church matters. He buckled on his armor, and devoted all his time 
both day and night during his stay here in reviving faith, hearing 
confessions, instructing young and old, administering the sacraments 
of the Chureh, baptizing children and solemnizing marriage. The 
Indian converts of past years and all the Canadian settlers were re- 
joiced at his presence, and almost the entire population of the mission — 
received communion during his stay. He addressed a letter to Bishop — 
Briand, dated July 28, 1768, informing him of his great success at this _ 
mission.® 

After having aroused the faithful at Michillimackinac he econtin- 
ued his journey towards Kaskaskia,® which was to be his residence, 
and arrived there in the fall of 1768.’ His first official entry on the 
records of the church of the ‘‘Immaculate Conception’’ at that place 
is the baptism of a child on September 8, 1768. He signs this record 
‘‘P. Gibault, parish priest of Kaskaskia.’’ He was, however, Vicar 
General of the Bishop of Quebee for the entire Illinois country and, 
in fact, of the North West. At other missions he simply signs the 
records as ‘‘missionary priest,’’ sometimes adding his official title as 
vicar general. But in every instance in which I have seen his genuine 
signature, it is invariably simply P. Gibault, and sometimes simply 
Gibault. § 

On his arrival at Kaskaskia he found the church there, as well as 
at all the surrounding missions, in a neglected and ruinous condition. 
Father Meurin had for three or four years been alone in the field, and, | 
in addition to his advanced age and physical infirmities, a prejudice 
existed against him in the minds of many Catholies on account of his 
being a Jesuit. But this young and zealous missionary was gladly 


5 Op. cit., Note 2. 

°On this journey Father Gibault came by the route traveled by Father Mar- 
quette and Louis Jolliet in 1673, when they discovered the Mississippi River. 

The question of fixing his residence is clarified by the letters published in 
the ILLINOIS CATHOLIC HISTORICAL REVIEW, Vol. IV, pp. 203-4. 

* Father Gibault has left numerous records over an extended field. I have 
examined a large number of them in the parish records of Immaculate Conception 
Church of Kaskaskia, now reposing in the archives of the St. Louis University, 
and those of St. Francis Xavier Church in Vincennes, Indiana. Besides these 
there are records made by Father Gibault for Holy Family Church, Cahokia, and 
at Prairie du Rocher and Mackinaw. 

* There is little ground for this statement. The Jesuits had been banished by 
the Superior Council of Louisiana, a civil body acting wholly without authority; 


V. Rev. PIERRE GIBAULT 


From a pen sketch of a portrait in Knights of Columbus Hall, Indianapolis. 


(By courtesy of Joseph P. O’Mahoney, Editor Indiana Catholic and Record) 


as 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 289 


welcomed by all classes, and he soon succeeded in reconciling all dif- 
ferences and producing unity and harmony. His jurisdition and 
powers, as Vicar General, extended from Michillimackinae on the north 
throughout the territory northwest of the Ohio River, and even beyond 
the Mississippi River as far as any settlements extended. He min- 
istered to the Catholies of St. Genevieve (Missouri) and the various 
missions on the western shore of the Mississippi River, which Father 
Meurin could not openly visit on account of his being a Jesuit. He 
blessed the first chapel erected on the site of the city of St. Louis. 
The bare statement of the extended field under his care is sufficient to 
show that this young missionary priest had immense labor to perform, 
It is well authenticated that he labored incessantly day and night, 
teaching the children and also adults not only on Sundays, but every 
night in the week. He was so successful in his efforts at Kaskaskia, 
where a great part of the Catholics had refused to recognize Father 
- Meurin as pastor, and had contributed nothing to the support of the 
ehurch, and had absented themselves entirely from it and the sacra- 
ment for years, that in about six months after his arrival there in Sep- 
tember, 1768, he brought them all back within the fold, and almost 
the entire population received communion on Easter Sunday, 1769. 


The same thing he accomplished in Kaskaskia, he in turn in a 
little over a year accomplished at all the missions around it on both 
shores of the Mississippi River. He infused new spiritual life and 
energy in all the missions around his residence. The uniform success 
that attended his efforts shows that he was a man of magnetic quali- 
ties, and in fact was a natural born leader of men. 


After restoring order, harmony and spiritual life in all the mis- 
sions in the vicinity of his residence at Kaskaskia, he extended his 
labors to more distant fields. In the winter of 1769-70 he set out for 
Vincennes, although the route he must travel was through a country 
filled with hostile and savage Indians on the war path, who had 
already killed many people.*® But, undeterred by the dangers of 
the journey, he started alone and safely reached Vincennes. He was 


but while this high-handed proceeding may have tended to discredit the Jesuits 
with a few who might profit by their despoilation, the great bulk of the French 
people remained loyal to their former spiritual leaders. 

weeMhe only thing that troubles me is that I cannot travel, sent in this 
direction, without being liable at any moment to have my scalp taken by the 
Indians. Twenty-two men have been killed or made captives (which is worse for 
they are burned alive), since I came to Illinois and on the road over which I 
traveled, but at different times.’’ Gibault to Bishop Briand, Inninois CarHouic 
Historical Review, Vol. IV, p. 203. 


290 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


received by the inhabitants with tears of joy, as they had been with- 
out the presence of a priest since Father Devernai was kidnapped in 
the fall of 1763. They met him on the bank of the Wabash River, 
and to use his own language in a letter to the Bishop of Quebec, dated 
June 15, 1770, on their knees, said, ‘‘Father save us, we are almost 
in hell.’’*** On this visit to our church he remained a little over two 
months. He, however, in that time wrought almost miraculous 
changes in spiritual matters. When he came he found the flock 
scattered, and the people addicted to all kinds of vices. They had 
received no religious instruction for years, and had forgotten much 
they had learned. The young had received no instructions at all. 
But Father Gibault went to work here with the same energy and zeal 
he had done elsewhere, and revived faith and religious practices, 
and before he left on this first short visit he had induced the entire 
membership of the church to receive the sacraments. He also con- 
verted and received into the church all the members of a Presbyterian 
family then residing in Vincennes.** 

On his return to his residence at Kaskaskia, he continued his 
missionary labors, and attended to the spiritual wants of the Catholies 
scattered over the extended space of country under his care and juris- 
diction. In a little more than six years from his arrival in September, 
1768, he had worked over the entire field, and infused new spiritual 
life among the people. His labors had been almost superhuman dur- 
ing these six years. He was worn out, exhausted and needed rest. 
In the spring of 1775, to obtain necessary relaxation, he visited Can- 
ada. But his vacation was of short duration. His mind and heart 
were set upon work, and ease and comfort afforded him no pleasure. 
In the fall of the same year, he started on his return to the North 
West. He arrived at Michillimackinac in November, where he was 
delayed by rains and inclement weather. He could not proceed 
further during the winter, and being unable to winter there, pro- 
ceeded in an open canoe propelled by two young men, who had never 
before had any experience of the kind, and himself steered the canoe. 
The weather on the way was very cold and stormy, and he suffered 
very much. He arrived at Detroit, as he stated in a letter to the | 
Bishop of Quebec, half dead from the effects of the severe cold 
weather on his way.** He immediately went to work there, assisting 


4 Tbid. 

© Thid. 

#8 << Steering the canoe myself through ice, in snow, of which there were eight 
inches in the level country, amidst high winds and tempests, at a season when no 
one in the memory of man has ever ventured forth, in twenty-two days I reached 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 291 


two old and infirm priests stationed at Detroit, and by his energy 
and zeal did much for that mission during his winter’s stay there, 
as he stated in a letter dated December 4, 1775. In the spring of 
1776 he returned to his residence at Kaskaskia, and resumed his mis- 
sionary labors as before, visiting in turn all the various missions in 
his territory. During these years he made many pastoral visits to our 
ehurch (at Vincennes). He was always welcomed by the people 
here with pleasure, and was greatly beloved by them, and possessed 
almost unlimited influence over them. In 1783 he changed his resi- 
dence from Kaskaskia to St. Genevieve on the western shore of the 
Mississippi River, where he continued to reside for the succeeding 
two years. Prior to 1785 his many visits to this place (Vincennes) 
were only of a missionary character, as the spiritual head of the 
church in the North West. But in that year, he changed his residence 
to Vineennes, and became for upwards of four years thereafter, 
the resident pastor of St. Francis Xavier’s church. During his pre- 
eeeding visits the first log church erected was used by him. But, 
when he came to reside here as pastor in 1785, the second log church 
had been erected, and the old one was used by him as a residence. 
This new church may have been the attraction that induced him to 
come and reside here. After he commenced to reside here, he no 
longer signs the church record as missionary priest, but as the pastor. 
After the close of his pastorate here in October, 1789, he went and 
fixed his residence at Cahokia.** 


Father Gibault from the above brief notice of his life and work 
was no ordinary character. He would have been a marked and 
influential character at any time and in any place. As I have said, 
the results that he accomplished demonstrate he was a born leader 
of men, and could acquire and exercise over his fellowmen a con- 
trolling influence. He was a man of refinement and culture. and 
very precise and exact in the discharge of all duties that devolved 
upon him, as our church records fully attest. His official entries in 
our church records are models of penmanship, and almost equal in 
neatness of execution to a copper plate engraving, and would make 
excellent models for the use of beginners learning to write. They are 


Detroit. . . . God be praised, the discomfort that I experienced between Michili- 
mackinae and here has made me so insensible that I only half realize the disap- 
pointment of not being able to return to the Illinois.’’? InLiInois CaTuHotic Hrs- 
TORICAL REVIEW, Vol. IV, pp. 207-8. 

4 PWather Gibault was granted by Congress 160 acres of land near Cahokia, 
but he never received it, and the grant was never revoked. 


292 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


all full, and particularly exact in description of the occurrence re- 
corded.*® 

I feel justly proud of the pastoral relation of Father Gibault 
with St. Francis Xavier’s from 1785 to 1789. His connection with 
our church for that period as resident pastor adds another brilliant 
gem to the many others that shine and sparkle in the diadem that 
surrounds her glorious and venerable history. 


FATHER GIBAULT’S EFFORTS FOR AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE 


John Law in his address on Vincennes says: ‘‘Next to Clark 
and Vigo the United States are indebted more to Father Gibault for 
the accession of the states comprised in what was the original North 
Western Territory than to any other man.’’!® 

Without wishing to detract from the deserved honor and praise 
due to (George Rogers) Clark and (Francis) Vigo for their services 
in that regard, I claim that the first place of honor is due to Father 
Gibault, and that it was more through his exertions and influence 
than that of any other man that this happy result was accomplished. 

Let us take a brief survey of historic facts connected with the 
matter. It is well known that the original aim of Clark’s campaign 
contemplated no more than the capture of Kaskaskia. 

As I have already stated, Father Gibault, after his first pastoral 
visit to Vincennes in the winter of 1769-70, made many other pastoral 
visits to this place prior to the time he came as resident pastor in 
1785. He was the idol of the people here, and possessed almost un- 
limited influence over them. He was here in the winter of 1778, 
after the revolutionary war between the American colonies and Great 
Britain had commenced. The English for strategic reasons endeavored 
to keep the French settlers in the North West, and also the Indians, 
in ignorance of the true nature and causes of the contest. They 
represented to them the dire consequences that would ensue to them, 


* These records repose in the archives of St. Francis Xavier, ‘‘Old Cathed- 
ral,’’ Vincennes, Indiana. 

* John Law was a distinguished lawyer of Vincennes, Indiana, not to be 
confused with the famous Englishman named Law, who was in Paris in the 18th 
century, and created the ‘‘ Mississippi Bubble.’? He was a contemporary of 
Father Gibault, and was attorney for Col. Francis Vigo in the litigation by means 
of which Vigo tried for years, unsuccessfully, to procure repayment of the sums 
he had advanced for the government during the period of the Revolutionary War. 
Forty years after Vigo’s death the government repaid part of Vigo’s advances 
with interest, but no one of the name or blood of Vigo received any part of the 
fund. 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 293 


if it was successful. But Father Gibault was not a man to be deceived 
in that way. He was a shrewd and learned man, and knew well the 
nature of the contest. He was a Frenchman, actuated and influenced 
in a great measure by the same influences that caused Lafayette and 
- other Frenchmen to espouse the cause of the colonies, and he did like- 

wise. In February, 1778 (1779), he called a meeting of the inhab- 
itants of this place (Vincennes), and delivered to them an address on 
the true cause and nature of the contest between England and her 
American colonies, and explained to them that the French had already 
declared in favor of the colonies. This meeting, I am inclined to be- 
lieve, was held in the old fort, which was at the time unoccupied. 
His influence over the people and his arguments were so convincing 
that he gained them all over to the American cause, and himself 
administered to them the oath of allegiance to the American cause."® 
The American flag was then hoisted for the first time over the fort. 
This was done by him at great personal risk as he was a subject of 
Great Britain.?’ 


Kaskaskia was at that time the strongest and most populous of the 
Illinois settlements, and possessed a strong and well armed force for 
defense. The forlorn and impoverished force of Clark was coparatively 
weak and unable even to cope in the open field with the armed force at 
Kaskaskia,'* much less to attack the place with any reasonable hope of 
success. Clark knew nothing of the strength of the force at Kaskaskia. 
He said of the affair that, when his presence was first known, that they 
determined to give him battle; but that a priest was there by the name 
of Gibault, who came out to meet him, and asked him by what author- 
ity he came and for what purpose, and whether he intended to inter- 
fere with the religious worship of the people. Clark says he informed 
him he came by the authority of the State of Virginia, and had no 
intention of interfering with religious worship, and that all might 
worship as they saw proper. Here then we have the secret of the 
bloodless capture of Kaskaskia without firing a gun or the loss of a 
single life. Clark’s reply to Gibault was the key that opened the 
gates of Kaskaskia to him without opposition. I can imagine the reply 


Full details of this procedure have been given in former papers of this 


series. 
% As a matter of fact the British troops had been removed from Fort Gage 


before this time, but there was a local militia that could have successfully defended 
against Clark. 


294 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


that Father Gibault gave to Clark. He said to him that he himself 
was on the same side with him, that he had already espoused the 
cause of the American colonies and that by his influence over the 
inhabitants of Kaskaskia he would secure his admission without the 
least opposition, but with the full approbation of the people.® Father 
Gibault had been for more than ten years the pastor at Kaskaskia, 
and was known and beloved by all the people. Clark further says 
that after this interview, Gibault returned to the town, and all oppo- 
sition or talk of resistance ceased, and he was allowed to take peace- 
able and quite possession of the place without firing a gun. This isa 
true statement of the cupture of Kaskaskia in July (July 4), 1778, 
by Clark, and in accord with the statements of Clark concerning it. 
Who, let me ask, was the real hero in the bloodless capture of Kas- 
kaskia in July, 1778? No fair-minded man, with all the facts and 
circumstances before him, will hesitate a moment to say Frather Pierre 
Gibault. Without his aid and influence the force at the command 
of Kaskaskia would have annihilated the force of Clark, and the 
expedition would have ended in failure.?° 


Clark had now accomplished the object of his mission. His com- 
mission from the Governor of Virginia authorized him to do no more. 
But he was not destined to stop here in his eareer of conquest. He 
was to receive a new commission to undertake and accomplish more. 
After he had thus obtained peaceable possession of Kaskaskia, Father 
Gibault took him in charge and gave him a new mission. He told him 
he must press on and capture the strong and important Fort Sack- 
ville at Vincennes; that this stronghold, situated as it was in the very 
heart of the country, was a secure base for operations in all directions 
and the key to the possession of the entire North West. Clark hesi- 
tated at being unable to capture the fort for want of sufficient force 
and the necessary means. Father Gibault promised to furnish the men 
and would also aid in procuring the necessary means. Relying on 
this promise and assurance, Clark consented to command on expedi- 
tion to capture Fort Sackville. Accordingly Father Gibault, through 
his influence with his parishioners, furnished two companies of IIli- 
nois troops all Catholics and members of Father Gibault’s church, one 
under command of (Richard) McCarthy and the other under com- 
mand of Francis Charleville. Father Gibault also enlisted in the cause 


* Undoubtedly Father Gibault favored the American cause before Clark came, 
(See former papers.) 

* See Clark’s account, published in former papers. Undoubtedly the local 
militia could have defeated Clark. 


> 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 295 


Francis Vigo, an Italian trader at St. Louis. Vigo was at that time a 
zealous and devoted Catholic and was one of Father Gibault’s flock, 
as he worshipped in the first chapel built on the site of St. Louis, 
which had been blessed by Father Gibault, and which he frequently 
visited. Through his influence Vigo was interested in the proposed 
expedition, and agreed to furnish means for it.*? 


Father Gibault was the only one at the time who possessed the 
requisite knowledge and influence to make the expedition a success. 
The inhabitants of Vincennes were as numerous as the force that was 
to be sent against the fort. Unless they could be placated and enlisted 
in its favor, the expedition could not succeed. Father Gibault was 
the only one who could do this. He was as well known and possessed 
as much influence at Vincennes as he did at Kaskaskia. 


* * %« %£ & 


Clark himself knew nothing concerning the place, neither did any 
of his men; and without a guide he could never have reached the 
place, ertainly not in the winter season with the intervening streams 
all out of their banks. But all this want of knowledge Father Gibault, © 
and he alone, could supply. He promised to furnish guides for the ex- 
pedition, to prepare boats for their passage over the Wabash and to 
provide for their generous and hearty welcome on their arrival.?? 
Father Gibault alone knew the condition of affairs at the Fort, and 
that the garrison was weak and short of supplies. For this reason he 
insisted on the expedition proceeding at once in the winter season, 
when the waters of all the streams on the way were out of their banks. 
Accordingly, the expedition to capture Fort Sackville started from 
Kaskaskia in February, 1779. Before they started, Father Gibault 
addressed the two Illinois companies under McCarthy and Charle- 
ville and encouraged them, and also gave them his pastoral blessing. 
These two companies were all Catholics. Father Gibault did more, 
He planned the entire route to Vincennes, and through his influence 
with his parishioners at Vincennes he provided means for their 
erossing the Wabash River, and for their being furnished pro- 


*t Mr. Cauthorne has failed to note the fact that Father Gibault made a trip 
to Vincennes in August, 1778, and secured the peaceable submission of the inhabi- 
tants of Vincennes. It was on this occasion that he advised the French inhabi- 
tants to take the oath of allegiance to the American cause. The journey of Clark 
and the [linois soldiers described by Cauthorne occurred after the British had 
retaken Vincennes. 

* All of which was fulfilled to the letter. 


296 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


visions, when the expedition should arrive exhausted and hungry 
as the men marched on foot and earried their scanty allowances.” 
All this was the work of Father Gibault, and no one but he possessed __ 
the requisite knowledge and influence to do it. One evidence of his 
handiwork is the fact, that, when Clark arrived at the Wabash River 
on his way, with its banks all overflowed, he gave orders to look out 
for boats and supplies. He was then nine miles below Vincennes, at 
an inclement season of the year, and surrounded by a miniature sea 
of water. Why should Clark have given such a command, unless 
there had been a pre-arrangement that boats and supplies would be 
furnished him? Why, under the circumstances, should any sane man 
expect boats and supplies at that point? The only reason that can be 
assigned for the command is that boats and supplies had been prom- 
ised him, and, therefore, he expected them. Who was it that prom- 
ised the boats and supplies? Who could have given such a promise 
with any reasonable hope of fulfillment? Father Gibault, and no one 
else. Clark and his entire party were entire strangers to the inhab- 
itants of Vincennes. But Father Gibault was well known there, and 
had been the pastor for years, and was beloved by them all. He 
eould do all this, and he alone. Clark failed to receive the looked for 
supplies on account of the uncertainty of the time of his arrival. 
But two boats were obtained, which enabled him to cross over his men. 


After the Wabash River was crossed over, who piloted the expedi- 
tion to Vincennes or caused it to be done? When the river was 
crossed, and the men reached the mamelle hill, they were nine miles 
from Vincennes. Between them and the town was the overflowed 
waters of the Wabash in places fifteen and twenty-five feet deep. 
The intervening space was filled with coulees, ravines, marshes, 
swamps and morasses. No man unacquainted with the topography of 
the country could have attempted to pass over that space without be- 
ing drowned in making the attempt. Yet those acquainted with the 
country could do it safely by threading their way through the waters, 
on the ridges and high grounds. How was the distance passed over 
by Clark and his men? The journal kept by one of the officers, who 
was not in the secret, says they met duck hunters who conducted them 
to the sugar camp, then to Warrior’s Island, and thence to the high 
grounds on which Vincennes stands.24 Who were these duck hunters? 
Simply guides that had been furnished through the influence of 


** See Clark’s journals. 
* Journal of Major Bowman. 


' ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 297 


Gibault. This is perfectly clear in my mind, and I think, will be 
equally so to any impartial person. When they arrived on the high 
grounds in view of the fort, Clark mounted his men on horses and 
marched and countermarched to create the impression he had a force 
- superior to what he actually had.?° Where did he get the horses upon 
which he thus mounted his men? They marched on foot and brought 
no horses with them. The answer is the horses were furnished by the 
inhabitants of Vincennes through the influence of their pastor, Father 
Gibault. And the half famished troops who had taken no nourishment 
for two days, when they arrived, were fed and eared for by the inhab- 
itants. What caused them to thus receive and treat armed strangers 
coming in their midst? The same answer is inevitable. It was the 
influence of Father Gibault. It is well known the inhabitants ac- 
quainted Clark with the strength of the garrison in the fort, their 
searcity of supplies and the munitions of war; and that supplies and * 
munitions and reinforcements were daily expected to arrive and that 
the attack on the fort should be made the same night he arrived. It 
is also well known that the inhabitants and the mission Indians as- 
sisted in the attack on the fort. Three-fourths of the men who took 
part in the attack on Fort Sackville, and compelled its surrender, were 
Catholics and the parishioners of Father Gibault. Who was it that 
caused them to do this? It was Father Pierre Gibault, the same man 
who had gained them all over in a body to the American cause and 
administered to them the oath of allegiance the year before. In view 
of all these facts, let me ask who was the real hero that planned and 
accomplished the surrender of Fort Sackville and thereby acquired 
for the United States the entire North West? The same answer must 
_ be given as was given in the case of the bloodless capture of Kaskaskia. 
It was none other than Father Pierre Gibault, the patriotic priest of 
the West. He was by far the ablest. man in the country at the time, 
and his entire career shows he was a man of magnetie qualities, and 
that he had acquired and exercised an immense influence over his 
fellow men. He was the only one who was known to the people in all 
sections of the country, and who possessed their entire confidence. 
Without his aid and influence, the force of Clark before Kaskaskia, 
in July, 1778, would have been wiped out of existence, and the cam- 
paign would have been accredited the foolhardy attempt of a madman. 
Without the same controlling influence, the expedition against Fort 


* Clark was a master of stratagem would it be called? Many of his acts 
would now I think be called (on the streets, of course,) bluffing, but he ‘‘made 
good.’’ 


298 JOSEPH J. THOMPSON 


Sackville would never have been undertaken, and the English would 
have still retained possession of the key of the North West territory. 
Without his sagacity, knowledge and influence the expedition would 
never have been a success, but would have ended in failure. In view 
of all these facts and circumstances, I claim that Father Pierre Gibault 
was the real and true hero to whom the United States are indebted 
for the acquisition of the North West Territory. This grand old 
man labored for the good of others all his life. As Father Lambig 
says the early missionaries labored for the good of the cause and left 


everything to God. So with Father Gibault. He labored for the good — 
of the cause he espoused whatever it was, and never thought of self 


or vain glory. Great praise for his services have ever been awarded 
him, but never the full measure. Those who knew the real facts and 
were able to relate them, never did so, until after the real hero was 
in his grave; and then with selfish pride passed over, or partly shaded 
the leading and controlling part he had taken in these grand enter- 
prises. 


But notwithstanding his valuable services to the country, he was 
never in any manner rewarded for them. In 1790, after a life of toil 
and struggle, he resided in poverty and destitution at Cahokia, [li- 
nois. In that year he petitioned Governor St. Clair for the grant of a 
few acres of land near that place for a home to shelter him in his old 
age. The land petitioned for had been church property granted by 
the French when they possessed the country, and was certainly within 
the protection of the treaty stipulations concerning such grants. 
Governor St. Clair gave his testimony to the valuable services rendered 
the country by Father Gibault, and recommended the grant. But the 
grant was never actually made,*® and the last years of the life of this 
distinguished and able man were passed in suffering and poverty. 
After an active life spent by this learned man for the benefit of his 
fellow men and his country he had nothing to show for it in the way 
of the goods of this world, not even a home that he could call his own. 
He could truly say ‘‘the birds of the air have nests and the foxes holes, 
but I have no place to lay my head.’’ 


He afterwards removed to New Madrid, and, according to Mr. 
Shea, in his valuable history of the church, died and was buried there 
in 1804. But I am informed in a letter received from L. W. Ferland, 
the present pastor of the Church of the Immaculate Conception at 


*° This particular grant was not made, but see Note 14. 


ILLINOIS’ FIRST CITIZEN — PIERRE GIBAULT 299 


Kaskaskia, Illinois, that shortly before his death he returned to Can- 
ada, and died and was buried there, and that he hopes in a short time 
to be able to go and visit his grave.”’ 


(History of St. Francis Xavier Cathedral, pp. 98-108.) 


JOSEPH J. THOMPSON. 
Chicago. 


* This statement has never been verified. Father Gibault’s last resting place 
has not been certainly determined. 


THE MISSOURI CENTENARY 


‘‘Going forth, teach ye all nations.’’ Matthew, XXVIII, 19. 


It is characteristic of the religion which Jesus Christ established 
on earth that it sought from the very beginning to spread itself 
from land to land, that it set no limit of territory or nation beyond 
which its message was not to be delivered. The pagan religions of the 
ancient world made no attempt to secure adherents, to win over 
individuals, much less entire nations to their doctrinal beliefs and 
practices. But with Christianity it was quite the opposite. Here 
was a religion, a ereed, a system of doctrinal truths stamped at. its 
very birth with what we call a missionary spirit, with a spirit of 
propaganda that would urge the ministers of this creed to carry 
its teachings to the uttermost ends of the earth at the cost of 
extreme bodily hardship and privation and with the loss even of 
life itself. So it was that the men who first took up the diffusion 
of the Gospel message were called Apostles, namely men sent forth, 
despatched, commissioned to bring to whomsoever they could reach 
the infinitely precious treasure of divine Faith. From Christ, then, 
its Founder and the Redeemer of us all, did Christianity receive 
the impress of its missionary spirit, on that memorable occasion, 
a great, if not the greatest turning-point in history, when He com- 
missioned His apostles to go forth and teach all nations. I eall 
Christ’s commission to His apostles to teach all nations a turning- 
point in human history, because from that day forth a new agency 
was added to the other forces and agencies that were recognized as 
shaping the history of the world. In the process by which humankind 
has lifted itself at any time or in any country from the low levels 
of savagery to that state of social development which we are accus- 
tomed to describe as civilization, certain factors were recognized to 
be at work—education, culture, science, the arts, commerce and trade. 
To these were now to be added another—religion. It was religion, the 
religion of Christ, that was to write the first chapter in the history 
of the great nations of the modern world. The pioneers of the cross 
were also to be the pioneers of civilization and culture. Benedict, 
Boniface, Patrick, Augustine not only carried the blessings of the 
Faith to the races which look back to them as their spiritual pro- 
genitors in Christ; they likewise first lit the torch of civilization 


*Sermon of Rey. Gilbert J. Garraghan, 8. J., at St. Francis Xavier "7 Church, 
St. Louis University, on Monday, October 10th. 
300 


THE MISSOURI CENTENARY . 301 


and culture where all was darkness before and blazed the path 
along which succeeding generations found their way to ever ascending 
heights of social, economic and cultural development. It came to 
be true what a brilliant writer has tersely declared ‘‘Hurope was 
the Faith and the Faith was Europe.’’ And so, to repeat once 
more what will bear repetition many times, so great is the volume 
of truth which it contains, no words ever uttered have done more 
to promote true civilization and culture in the modern world than 
the words uttered by Jesus Christ our Lord when He commissioned 
His Apostles to convert the nations of the earth, ‘‘Going forth, teach 
ye all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the 
Son and the Holy Ghost.’’ Those words have made history century 
by century and they are making history today. The missionary- 
spirit which they sanction and even ordain as a sacred duty imposed 
on the ministers of Christ has brought it about that the Church of 
Christ stands at the threshold of the history of every one of the great 
nations of Europe, shaping that history from the beginning and 
moulding it to the thing which it is today. 

As it was with the Old World, so it has been with the New. At 
no period in the history of the Church has the missionary spirit been 
more strikingly in evidence, at no period has it found a more 
magnificent field for the exercise of its energies than during the 
centuries that witnessed the discovery and exploration of the New 
World. The part the missionary has played in the great drama of 
American discovery and exploration will ever remain one of the 
acknowledged glories of the Church that sent them forth. There is, 
we may admit, a touch of exaggeration in the words of the historian 
Bancroft, ‘‘Not a cape was turned, not a river entered, but a Jesuit 
led the way.’’ None the less are the words a legitimate rhetorical 
turn of speech to express what is an undoubted truth. If the mis- 
sionary was not in every instance in the van of the explorer, he 
was at all events generally at his side. No great path-finding expedi- 
tion, the romance of which lights up the opening scenes of American 
‘history, but Catholic missionaries will be found in it side by side 
with the soldiery of Spain or France. Coronado, De Soto, De La 
Salle—in their adventurous marches across American soil, the figure 
of the missionary-priest lends distinction to enterprises which without 
his presence might have easily been nothing more than the merest 
quests for glittering gold or political power. If we seek still further 
illustrations of the direct and shaping hand which the missionary 
has had in the making of early American history, we shall find it 
within the limits of our own commonwealth of Missouri, 


302 GILBERT J. GARRAGHAN 


It is a hundred years since President Monroe, after an historic 
struggle, the final issue of which hung in the balance until the period 
of the Civil War, signed the proclamation admitting Missouri into 
the Union. We look back, therefore, today on a hundred years of 
statehood. They have been years fruitful beyond measure in all 
that makes for material growth and prosperity, for economic develop- 
ment, for intellectual advance. We are proud, as Missourians, to 
know that the sons and daughters of the state through a century 
of years have built up a commonwealth that has not stood alone in 
isolated grandeur but has contributed in a measure, steady and large, 
to the growth of American national life. And Missouri has contributed 
so largely to the growth of American national well-being precisely 
because it has compassed the well-being of its own eitizens. The 
superabundant riches that lie within easy reach in soil and climate, 
in forest and stream, these it has capitalized, these it has made the 
solid base on which the commonwealth on its material side has risen 
to greatness. With physical well-being has come education and 
eulture and the finer things of the spirit—in all of which Missourians 
hold no backward place. 


On an occasion such as the present retrospection is the proper 
attitude to take. The story of the past seeks to be retold, the 
memory, the imagination are curious to follow the steps by which 
our century-old commonwealth came up from the primeval wilder- 
ness to the towering heights of peace, plenty and social prosperity on 
which she stands today. But time permits of no extended historical 
survey—an episode here and there from the mighty epic of Missouri 
history is all that may be attempted. And here we shall do well to 
point out that the history of our commonwealth did not begin with 
1821. Before there was a state of Missouri, there was a territorial 
Missouri and a colonial Missouri; and it was during the latter stages 
of growth that the solid foundations of the commonwealth were laid. 
The history of Missouri that merits more than any other to be ranked 
as standard and classic ends with the admission of the state into the 
Union—not an accident, or a paradox, but a frank recognition of 
the fact that the complete story of Missouri’s greatness carries one 
far to the rear of its initial year of statehood. Here, in colonial 
Missouri, in Missouri of the French and Spanish regimes, we find 
perhaps more so than at later periods the poetry and romance that 
sometimes hang like a halo over historical beginnings—and here, too, 
we find trailing paths through the wilderness and breaking historical 
ground the spirit which we have already indicated as one of the 


THE MISSOURI CENTENNARY 303 


great history-making agencies in the modern world,—the missionary- 
spirit of Christianity. 

The very first incident in Missouri history centers around the 
symbol of Christianity, the cross of Christ. When Fernando De Soto, 
Spanish conquistador, came up from Tampa Bay in 1541 with his 
soldiers of fortune, his great adventure led him as far north as New 
Madrid which is just within the south line of Missouri. Here, in 
pleasant rustic bowers which the Indians fashioned for their un- 
expected guests, the Spaniards found rest after the fatigues of the 
march. And as they tarried thus in their delightful stopping-place, 
an Indian chief came to De Soto and said, ‘‘Sire, you and your 
men are of greater prowess than we: so must your God be of greater 
might than ours. Beg Him, therefore, to send us rain, for our corn 
is parched and great peril there is that we lose it all.’’ De Soto, 
having a mind to do as the Indian had asked, called the chief car- 
penter, Francisco the Genoese and bade him hew down a tree in the 
near-by forest, the tallest and largest he could find, and make out of 
it a cross. And Francisco did as he was bidden, felling a huge 
eypress of such weight that a hundred men together could scarce lift 
it from the ground. Then out of the cypress he fashioned a mammoth 
eross which was set upon a hill or rather Indian mound that over- 
looked the Spanish camp. And on the morrow, at De Soto’s word 
a great procession was formed of fully a thousand persons, Indians 
mingling with the Spaniards and the chief walking beside De Soto. 
The friars chanted the litanies and the soldiers made answer thereto. 
And when the procession arrived before the cross, each and every 
one approached it devoutly, bent the knee before it and kissed it in 
token of reverence to the symbol of man’s redemption. The Te Deum 
was sung and the ceremony was over. During the night that followed 
came a great copious downpour of rain. The delighted Indians 
hastened to express their gratitude to De Soto, but he made answer 
that their thanks were due not to him but te Almighty God, Creator 
of heaven and earth, who was wont to bestow such mercies on men. 

This, then, is the first incident of which we have any record as 
having taken place on Missouri soil. The curtain of time, as it 
begins to rise above the stage of Missouri history, discloses a cross 
and a religious procession of soldiers and friars and a picturesque 
ceremony of respect and veneration paid by these to the accepted 
symbol of Christianity. Do we realize what tremendous significance 
lies in the fact that Missouri history begins with an expression of 
Christian faith? And do we realize what meaning lies in the cireum- 
stance that here, at the threshold of our commonwealth’s recorded 


304 GILBERT J. GARRAGHAN 


story, stands the missionary-friar, come from overseas with a mandate 
to teach the pagan nations of the New World and baptize them into 
the Church of Christ? At all events, it lends immeasurable dignity 
and distinction to Missouri history that it made a beginning not 
with some deed of military daring or commercial enterprise or 
political scheming, but with a solemn and worshipful raising on high 
of the eross of Christ. 


De Soto’s planting of the Cross on Missouri soil took place three 
hundred and eighty years ago. One hundred and thirty-two years 
later, two white men pass down the Mississippi in their canoe, the — 
first Europeans, as far as we have record, to skirt the entire-eastern 
border of our state. One of the two is Louis Joliet and the other 
is James Marquette, Missionary-priest of the Society of Jesus. For 
Marquette it was not merely the hope of exploring the great waterway 
to its outlet that led him on the perilous adventure. He hoped also 
to bear tidings of the Faith to the hapless redmen that pitched their 
wigwams along its banks—again the missionary spirit making con- 
tribution to the pioneer history of the West. Within a few years 
of Joliet and Marquette’s discovery of and voyage down the Missis- 
sippi appeared their maps illustrating the historic expedition—and on 
these maps are found for the first time in the geography of the day 
the names Missouri, Kansas and Osage. In a very literal sense these 
two enterprising Frenchmen put Missouri on the map. 


Twenty-five years later than the historic days during which Joliet 
and Marquette gazed upon the prairies and hillsides of Missouri 
that lay on their right as they made descent of the broad Mississippi 
occurred the first recorded incident in the history of St. Louis. And, 
marvelous thing indeed, this incident was also an expression of 
Christian faith. In the December of 1698, three priests, Fathers 
Montigny, Davion and St. Cosme, came down from Canada to set 
up mission posts among the Indians of the Mississippi Valley. De- 
scending the Mississippi to a point opposite the village of the 
Tamaroa, they landed from their canoes on the west bank of the 
river. Here, then, they tarried a while on ground that is now 
within the city-limits of St. Louis; and here on December 8th, 1698, 
festival of the Imaculate Conception of the Virgin Mother of God, 
all three priests celebrated Mass. No earlier event than this is 
identified with the ground on which the metropolis of Missouri was 
to rise in later years. The first page in the written history of St. 
Louis tells of the arrival on its site of three Catholic missionaries and 
the celebration by them along the river bank, somewhere within the 


THE MISSOURI CENTENARY 305 


limits of the future city, of the supreme and central act of Christian 
worship. Did any locality ever emerge from prehistoric darkness 
under auspices more sacred or receive at its first contact with civilized 
folk a more certain dedication to the service which is supreme to 
every other service to which man may devote himself, the service of 
Almighty God? Let us treasure in our memories this inaugural in- 
cident in St. Louis history—and the time of it we may easily recall for 
it occurred precisely two hundred and twenty-two years ago last 
December 8th. 


Once again the missionary-spirit is to be credited with a notable 
piece of history making—for the Christian ministers who officiated 
on the site of St. Louis, December 8th, 1698, had come to plant the 
seeds of the Faith along the great central waterway of the Middle 
West. Before they had left the confines of what is now Missouri, 
these adventurous clerical pioneers set up a eross as De Soto had 
done before them on the river-bank; and the words in which St. 
Cosme, one of their number, reports the incident, reveals the spirit 
in which their enterprise was conceived. ‘‘God grant that this cross, 
which has never yet been known in this place, may triumph here 
and that our Lord may abundantly spread the work of His Holy 
Passion, so that all these savages may know and serve Him.”’ 


Not more than a year or two had slipped by since St. Cosme 
and his companion priests came up to the site of St. Louis, when 
only a few miles south of their camping place arose the first white 
settlement in the history of Missouri. It’s site, so far as can be 
determined, from very inadequate data, was on the north bank of the 
river Des Peres, near or at its mouth, at a point consequently well 
within the city limits of St. Louis. Hither came in 1700 the Kaskaskia 
Indians, accompanied by their Jesuit pastors; hither also came the 
Tamaroa Indians, likewise accompanied by their Jesuit pastors; and 
hither, too, came from the east bank of the Mississippi very many 
French habitants to live side by side with the children of the soil. 
So it came to pass that a French-Indian village grew up in the 
wilderness, the earliest within the limits of the state, with Catholic 
clergyman to minister to its spiritual needs. Time has dealt roughly 
with this pioneer Missouri settlement. Scarcely anything more 
substantial of it has remained in human record or tradition than a 
faint memory enshrined in the name of the River Des Peres, the 
Father’s River, along the banks of which it one time nestled. But 
the existence at least of such a settlement at the time and place we 
have indicated, is established beyond all doubt; and it is pleasant to 


306 GILBERT J. GARRAGHAN 


recall that this French-Indian village of over two centuries ago was 
a sort of first St. Louis established some sixty years before Laclede 
and Chouteau laid out the later St. Louis on a neighboring site. 
Needless to say, the missionary spirit was very much in evidence at 
the River Des Peres; the priests that labored there were men of 
education and culture who had dedicated their lives to the conversion 
and spiritual care of the redmen of the American wilds. It is only 
now that history begins to render a belated testimony of veneration ~ 
and respect to these devoted men, the first resident clergymen that — 
Missouri ever knew. 

But we are engaged in only the merest casual survey of the share 
which the missionary-spirit has had in Missouri beginnings. Time 
does not permit us to outline the picture in its fulness, much less to 
fill it out with all its wealth and variety of detail. It shall be 
enough if on this occasion we begin to realize the broad truth that 
some of the brightest and most inspiring pages in early Missouri 
history tell the story of men who left comfortable homes and circum- 
stances in Europe to come to what in their day was a trackless and 
forbidding wilderness in order that they might execute according to 
the measure of their strength the mandate of Christ to his apostles 
to teach all nations. The first clergymen to exercise the ministry 
in St. Louis, Kansas City and St. Joseph, the three leading cities of 
the state, were missionary-priests who had dedicated their lives to 
apostolic work among the Indians. The most elaborate, systematic 
and, on the whole, successful effort ever made for the conversion 
to christianity and subsequent civilizing of the Indians of the North- 
west, had its origin in St. Louis, and from there as its pivotal centre, 
was maintained through many years. The story of Father De Smet 
and his missionary expedition to Oregon and the Pacific Coast will 
live forever as an element of color and romance in the pioneer history 
of the Far West. The figure of De Smet is an arresting one as 
imagination pictures the many striking figures that crowd the stage 
of early Missouri history. He counted as personal friends leading 
personalities of his day, from Senator Benton and John McLaughlin, 
the Father of Oregon, to Generals Harney and Sherman; but every 
advantage or influence he could command was as nothing unless it 
converged on his dominating interest in life, which was to promote 
the economic and religious welfare of the Indian. For the Indian’s 
sake he blazed a missionary trail that stretched from his headquarters 
at the old St. Louis University on Washington Avenue across the 
Great Plains to the head waters of the Columbia and thence to the 
shores of Puget Sound. 'Thanks to his missionary zeal, Missouri found 


THE MISSOURI CENTENARY 307 


itself to be something more than a sort of purveyor-in-chief to the 
great West of explorers, traders, trappers and adventurous pioneers. 
The state became as a beacon light of Gospel truth to the Indian 
tribes in their native habitats beyond the Rocky Mountains; and the 
glory of their spiritual conquest to Christ through his missionary 
zeal and that of his associates, is reflected on the commonwealth of 
which it was the cherished privilege of Father De Smet to call himself 
a citizen. 

As in other respects, so in the field of education, Missouri owes 
to the missionary-spirit a tremendous debt. The earliest educational 
ventures in the state, after the eighteenth-century schools of the 
Catholic-lay-teachers, Jean Baptiste Trudeau and Madame Rigoche, 
were made by men and women who had come from overseas to accept 
hardships and privation in the new world that they might dispense 
to white and Indian alike the lessons of christian morality and faith. 
The first free school in Missouri was opened by Mother Duchesne at 
St. Charles in 1818. The first school for Indian boys west of the 
Mississippi was established in 1824 at Florissant by Father Van 
Quickenborne. There also, a year later, was opened by Mother 
Duchesne the first school for Indian girls in the West. The first 
academy and college in St. Louis was foundéd in 1818 by Bishop 
Du Bourg, the missionary priests who had come with him from 
Europe being its first professors. The first University west of the 
Mississippi dates from 1832, when St. Louis College, then under 
Jesuit management was raised by act of the Missouri Legislature to 
the rank of a University. The Society of Jesus, which has conducted — 
St. Louis University as an institution of post-graduate instruction 
through almost ninety years, was established in Missouri primarily 
as a missionary body, with the conversion and civilization of the 
Indians of the West as its principal field of work. So it is that the 
mandate of Christ to his Church to teach all nations has been pro- 
ductive of the most far-reaching results in every age and in every 
land, including our own and particularly in that portion of it which 
we cherish as the Commonwealth of Missouri. | 

This is indeed an occasion full of inspiration for us all, if we but 
catch the true perspective of Missouri history and are content with 
no narrow or provincial view-point from which to survey its complex 
and many sided content, Missouri history is no simple, homogeneous 
product of historic forces. Rather is it a highly variegated fabric 
woven of many diverse threads which only the eye of the patient and 
studious will come to differentiate. Yet may we call it the net 
result of three distinct manifestations of the human spirit, of three 


308 GILBERT J. GARRAGHAN 


widely different phases of the energies of man. How the political 
spirit has worked to give Missouri history tone and color and char- 
acter of its own is plainly written on the surface of events. We 
have only to think of the tense political feeling engendered by the 
issue of slavery and the consequent shadows of disunion and civil 
war that overhung the commonwealth from its birth. The commercial] 
spirit has vast achievement to its credit. We have only to think of 
the trappers and traders of the pioneer period or of the great fur 
trading companies whose business, spreading out from St. Louis by 
stream and forest made contact with the farthest reaches of the 
west and laid the foundation of the wealth which Missouri boasts in 
commerce and trade. But the political spirit and the commercial 
spirit did not between them achieve the full extent of Missouri’s 
greatness. There was needed for the complete expression of what 
Missouri was to stand for in the galaxy of American commonwealths 
still another spirit, the spirit of the missionary and apostle of Christ. 
This spirit it is which throws a halo not of this world around 
Missouri beginnings, consecrating them as mere politics or commerce 
could never do and lending them depth and spiritual significance. 
And so the historic figures in which the spirit was embodied, let us 
bless their names, and cherish their memories for the example they 
have left us of dedication to the service of Christ the King and of 
loyal pursuit of the higher things of life. The friars of De Soto’s 
party that chanted the Te Deum at the historie raising of the cross, 
the first glorious incident in Missouri history; the black gowned 
hunters of souls that voyaged down the Mississippi centuries ago or 
celebrated the most solemn rite of Christianity in the wilderness that 
once overlay the site of our fair city of St. Louis; the redoubtable 
De Smet, spanning half the continent and that a trackless waste 
in his pursuit of souls; to these and their associates and all others 
who in the role of missionaries have identified themselves with the 
opening chapters of Missouri’s history, we tender today an eager 
tribute of gratitude and respect. Going forth in response to the 
mandate of Christ, their King, they were minded to teach the nations 
they found sitting in darkness and the valley of the shadow of 
death. May the memory of them never perish from this land which 
felt the hallowed touch of their footsteps—and may the sons and 
daughters of Missouri conceive a higher esteem and deeper affection 
for their beloved commonwealth because of these devoted missionaries 
of the cross who, building better than they knew, laid the first founda- 
tion stones in the fabric of Missouri history. 


WAR WELFARE WORK 


DOMESTIC SECRETARIAL SERVICE 


The following very interesting account of welfare work was written 
by James F. O’Connor, who served as a Knights of Columbus secretary 
at Camp Funston for more than a year. The reader will at once be 
struck with the highly intelligent outlook indicated by the letter. 
O’Connor, like most of the mature, well-informed men who accepted 
secretarial service with the Knights of Columbus, saw with the mind 


-. as clearly as with the eye. Like all the secretaries, too, he had an ap- 


preciation of the mental requirements. Able to see the humorous side 
of every event or incident he was capable of communicating a similar 
spirit to those whose welfare was being sought. It would be difficult 
to find a more readable account of war welfare work than this letter 
from James F’. O’Connor, written at a time when his life was despaired 
of, and chiefly upon a bed of pain. Fortunately the writer has sur- 
vived, let us hope for many years of useful work. 

My assignment found me always with units in which there were 
far less than the average percentage of Catholics, but from first to 
last I enjoyed happy, intimate relations with all the enlisted men and 
received every acceptable courtesy from their officers. Of course our 
activities were chiefly with the enlisted men and their freedom and 
easy comfort in our “‘huts’’ was not to be lessened by the presence of 
their officers save on brief business calls. I remember one exception 
to this practice: Major General Lutz Wahl, Commanding the Seventh 
Division, was an interested, understanding friend and he frequently 
dropped in on ‘‘Casey’’ in our No. 1 House. He was especially in- 
terested in educational matters at that time and to the last hoped that 
we would have charge of the Army Schools. His manner of speaking 
to me about the soldiers always pleased me. He would say: ‘‘ Well, 
O’Connor, I guess we will send some of your boys away tomorrow.’’ 
Or (when it was rumored the Division was going to the Border) : 
‘‘O’Connor, will you go with your boys to Mexico?’’—On which ocea- 
sion I replied, ‘‘If permitted I will go with ’em to a hotter place than 
that.’’ It was his speaking of them as ‘‘your boys’’ that showed his 
understanding. He knew I loved them and I knew he did too. It was 
in General Wahl’s period of command that the R. O. T..C. came to 
our camp from several states for a summer training course. Most of 
these school boys in uniform were earnest, ambitious lads, keen with 
military spirit, but of course there were some who came for a lark— 


and soon fell out. I overheard one of these latter rebuking another for 
309 


310 WAR WELFARE WORK 


saluting a K. of C. secretary. ‘‘You don’t salute those fellows, they’re — 
only Welfare men.’’ A veteran (of three years!) passing by, rode 
him thusly: ‘‘Say you—(censored)—we and all our officers salute 
them ; who in h—Il do you think you are?’’ 

The Mass in our house was always impressive and edifying, and 
the brief sermons and the prayers for dead comrades were unusual 
and touching. Regarding the Mass: I liked to have a couple of the 
men act as servers, and there were some who did it with the reverent 
ease of seminarians. Most of the time I did the serving, however, 
though there was a captain who wished the privilege, but who, because 
of duty, was generally late and who looked reproaches at me for beat- 
ing him to it. I had to be careful, in summer, to cut the candles in 
lengths of two or three inches. If set up in a greater length the heat 
(110°, and more sometimes) would melt them to droop over the candle 
sticks and set the altar afire. At the same altar in winter (10° below) 
I have opened my blouse and shirt to melt against my breast the ice in 
the cruet, for the ablutions. As you know the Mass was the only public 
religious exercise of our camp activities, and so truly did we live up 
to our slogan, ‘‘Everybody Welcome,’’ that some non-Catholic re- 
eruits were a long while in camp before they knew that we were Cath- 
olics and then they would tell us what awful things they had believed 
of us. One of our secretaries—he is sheriff in a western state—was not 
aware of the absolute ignorance of and prejudice against Catholics 
which prevails in some places not yet reached by the Extension Society. 
A group of four recruits came from one of these districts and one of 
the four fairly lived in our No. 1 House in every free hour. He was 
only a boy and he was always hungry, and the meals, generous as they 
were, didn’t come often enough for him. I had given him some candy 
one evening after listening for a while to his boyish, friendly talk, 
when he turned to the elderly secretary near me and proceeded to give 
old gentleman his unexpurgated opinion of Catholics. As the young 
fellow went on Mr. Secretary’s grey hair seemed to stand, his eyes to 
_be leaving their sockets, while he sputtered and struggled for words to 
express his amazement, horror and rage. The old man I think never 
forgave me for my behavior then. My uncontrollable laughter, how- 
ever, startled him and the boy into an escape from a dangerous situa- 
tion. The secretary could see nothing but an insult to us both and I 
had difficulty in showing him that the work of our Order had re- 
ceived a test and a compliment. The boy had received from us all the 
comforts he had known in the army, and we had not proseletyzed, had 
not spoken of our religion to him. The story spread about and seemed 
to impress the officers, non-Catholics, as they were. The General asked 


JAMES F. 0’CONNOR 311 


me for it: ‘‘O’Connor, I hear you have another good one, tell me!’’ 
He saw the incident as I did. The young lad of course was afterwards 
in a better attitude toward Catholics. In line with this I was many 
times questioned about one particular matter, and what a thrill I felt 
on these occasions! There would always be about the same introduc- 
tion. A soldier would come to me saying: ‘‘Sir’’ or ‘‘Mr. O’Connor, 
may I speak to you privately about something?’’ Of course I had 
many such conferences about sickness at home or other troubles, but 
these were different. Sitting down with me in office or library or else- 
where the man would say, ‘‘ What can I do to become a Catholic?’’ 
The rest was easy—and beautiful. Every such man was faithful (in 
most cases I was his sponsor at baptism afterwards), and it was most 
edifying to see them devoting much of their free time to the chaplain’s 
instructions or in some corner apart digging into ‘‘The Faith of Our 
Fathers,’’ the Catechism and other books we gave them. 

One day I was sponsor for an old time Sergeant and was to be best 
man at his marriage next day. Beth Sacraments were administered, 
as was his First Communion, in the tiny Sanctuary adjoining our hall. 
The bride was coming alone to camp from Michigan and the grey 
haired secretary was to be bridesmaid, proxy for some girl in Grand 
Rapids. I asked him to wear a veil but he refused—profanely. The 
afternoon before the marriage I scouted the country for miles in the 
old Ford looking for flowers for the nuptial altar, and if you ever 
looked for August flowers in rural Kansas you will believe my search 
was long. I finally found a country parish whose pastor had a garden. 
The priest was absent, but I honied his housekeeper into letting me 
take all I could find and the little altar looked very sweet for the First 
Communion and the marriage. 

One of my godsons was the champion heavyweight boxer of the 
outfit. When he came to me for a private talk I supposed it was in 
regard to a ring contest we had scheduled, but it was the other happy 
beginning: ‘‘Mr. O’Connor, I would like to become a Catholie.’’ 
There was something unusual in this case for the big fellow was from 
my own state of Illinois, and his sister—they were orphans—had come 
to live in a village near camp. I was asked to supply the reading 
matter in duplicate and they were baptized together. Here was an- 
other thing in this case which gave me pleasant thought: The big 
boxer had for his buddy—and they were inseparable—a soldier as big 
as himself, who had his own religious belief, not a Catholic, yet when 
big Bill M. came on certain afternoons for instruction, buddy would 
sit somewhere near the chaplain’s room, patiently waiting an hour 
each time for Bill to come out when they would go rollocking and 


B12 WAR WELFARE WORK 


rough housing away together. He knew what Bill was doing, what 
Bill was going to do, and it wasn’t at all what buddy believed in, but 
it was a matter of religion, of conscience ; it was Bill’s business, not to 
be scoffed at, not to be argued about. Many times during the weeks of 
instruction I observed him and thought how fine it would be if some 
of our more cultured friends could be so fair, so unselfish towards 
those they profess to esteem. 

The last of the boys whom I sponsored in baptisms was a fine, clean 
man whose name spoke of Scotland. By that time I was almost ready 
to leave camp, all other welfare men having gone a month before and 
I remaining only for the formal transfer of most of our property and 
salvaging the small remainder. The priest who instructed him had me 
take him to a country church for the ceremony and neophyte and 
sponsor made a cold journey, for it was 12° below. This was the last 
use I ever made of ‘‘Casey’s Car,’’ and I thought ita fine finish. By 
the way, Casey’s car was also always the soldiers’ car. Whether it 
was our (very) ordinary ear or our light truck it never passed a walk- 
ing soldier if he cared for a ride. I’ve had eight or ten of the boys 
in and on the car between camp and Fort or Range and all secretaries 
were advised of the rule. 

I cannot speak of these days in camp without referring to the 
biggest K. of C. secretary I have known. He was big in body—a lean 
old cavalry man of other days—hbig in heart and big in achievement. 
He was the first secretary in Camp Funston, saw the beginning of its 
construction, selected the sites and contracted for the building of our 
various Houses and saw the first soldiers arrive for training. The 
reservations of Camp Funston and Fort Riley, with the Ranges and 
such locations as Remount Station, Isolation Camp, ete., enclosed mag- 
nificent distances, and when he was secretary in charge—first general 
secretary in fact—he made those distances afoot. In heat and in cold 
he went on his way, hunting for some one, perhaps one whose mother 
had written to ‘‘Casey’’ because she didn’t hear from her boy, find- 
ing him after miles of weary going among thirty thousand or more 
boys, and always, sooner or later, establishing ‘‘contact’’ with the 
loved ones. Casey had no ear in those days and the roads and trails 
were rough. He it was who had a large cooking range donated by a 
K. of C. council and in our No. 1 House supplied coffee and food to 
the soldiers, who by coming to Holy Communion missed their morning 
mess. ‘The men who afterwards returned to Funston for discharge 
invariably looked for and inquired about ‘‘the big man who used to be 
in charge here.’’ And in those early days he largely financed his own 
noble activities, As last general secretary I had the privilege, when 


JAMES F. 0’CONNOR 313 


all other secretaries had gone, of having him, then a civilian employe 
in the army, a guest in the first house he had built there, and in some 
bitter cold mornings when we passed up the distant mess we made our 
coffee on the range on which he had prepared the breakfast of so many 
Communicants. From first to last he expressed love in terms of service 
and by splendid example led and inspired us, his co-workers. He is 
Past Grand Knight of Topeka (Kansas) Council, James J. Lannan, 
of that city. (Alas! since I wrote the above I have had sad tidings. 
Big Jim Lannan died suddenly in Camp Funston just when the occu- 
pying division was about to abandon that field of his great work. 
Peace to his big soul.) 

I wonder if the Catholic Chaplains have told any considerable part 
of their noble work? It was my great good fortune to be intimately 
acquainted with many of them, as Monsignor Foley, who visited us 
regularly can testify. On one occasion one of our secretaries, Steve 
O’Rourke, who was athletic director for us in Funston and Fort Riley, 
eame down from the Fort with a priest and seeking me out said: 
‘‘Jim, I want you to meet our new chaplain.’’ I turned and at once 
Steve was amazed to see us embracing each other—to hear me making 

glad noises! It was Father Sidney Morrison of my own (Marquette) 
council in Chicago. His coming was a joyful surprise, and though he 
eouldn’t spend much time in the camp I saw him occasionally at the 
Fort and he was most helpful to me and to our work besides filling 
his own large duties so successfully. Another priest who should be 
named in Illinois’ record of chaplains’ activities is Father (Captain) 
L. A. Falley, 8. J., of the 6th Inf. (th Div., US. A. He is in Chicago 
now I believe. The Knights of Columbus owe him great praise and 
thanks for the help he gave them. Belonging to the regular forces he 
_ had the finest understanding of the men and both abroad and in camp 
here was a wonder-worker in getting backsliders and old hard eases 
back to the line of duty. He had no hours for working, but twenty- 
four to the day, and the tougher the case the better he liked it, and 
the better the case liked him after they got together. I know, because 
some of these same cases talked to me before and after going to Father 
Falley. Come to think of it, most often they didn’t go to him, he went 
to them—and always brought them back. 

Some recollections of our associates in Welfare work occur to me. 
First in my mind shall always be the representatives of the American 
Library Association. In the welfare activities in and near Camp 
Funston the Knights of Columbus, outside of their own personnel, 
had no such active helpers, no such loyal, thoughtful assistants. They 
were all non-Catholies, but besides their liberality in supplying books 


314. WAR WELFARE WORK 


‘and periodicals they daily demonstrated their real friendship. In time 
of need—as of a car or a driver, of coal, of ice, of anything—we seldom 
asked them for accommodation; they anticipated the request and of- 
fered themselves and what they had for our use. Especially in my 
lonely days of winding up affairs, when the government had taken 
over nearly everything, including the fine library, the men of the 
A. L. A., now employes of the government, gave me every possible help. 
At one time, too, Mr. Herke was an Editor of ‘‘The Funstonian’’ and 
wrote some kind things about the Knights’ activities. He was given 
to teasing a couple of ‘‘Y’’ men, and also the head of the Jewish Wel- 
fare Board,—the latter a fussy little doctor of psychology. At one 
time the J. W. B.’s funds were running low (so the doctor told us) 
and Mr. Henke took the occasion to inform him (not in our presence) 
that. we were getting a new limousine car besides ordering creature 
comforts for the soldiers on an unheard of big seale. In the dark of 
night I passed along the street close to the veranda of the J. W. B., 
and overheard part of a conversation between J. W. B. and a ‘‘Y”’ 
man. The little doctor said with a groan: ‘‘My God! these K. of C.’s 
have money to burn!’’ The ‘‘Y’’ man replied (groan No. 2), ‘‘ Yes,— 
and they burn it!’’ This same psychologist amused me on another 
occasion. He and one of our secretaries on the way to mess passed the 
building where I stood at a window. The sun was blazing, the mer- 
cury far above the hundred mark. All at once we heard a bugle sound 
the first note of the Retreat. The Jewish doctor—a small man—made 
a leap of fully ten feet to the shade of our building, our less careful 
Irish secretary stiffened where he stood in the sun, and both stood at 
attention and salute during the eall and the anthem, but the Jewish 
psychologist had made himself comparatively comfortable. This same 
doctor , temporarily deprived of his assistant one week, asked if one 
of us would accompany him to Fort Riley to aid in his weekly distri- 
bution of cakes to the sick soldiers there. We knew how many patients 
were in the hospitals then and spoke of what we would have to take. 
The doctor discounted that number by those he caleulated would be too 
ill to eat cakes—which was all right—perhaps. When, however, he 
further reduced his total by the number in the venereal section, say- 
ing they ‘‘would give nothing to such miserable menaces to society’’ 
he was informed that Casey was off him on such a stern visitation, and 
the doctor lacked our company. We were in close and agreeable 
contact at all times with the Red Cross representatives, who wel- 
ecomed the elass of troubles which properly we sent to them. From 
the beginning to the end of activities in Funston there was never any 
friction between the Knights and the other welfare organizations. 


JAMES F. 0’CONNOR 315 


I must, however, say that with a few fine and notable exceptions the 
Y. M. C. A. personnel suffered by comparison with any other secre- 
taries. Nearly always our programs were prearranged for different 
hours in the various welfare houses, so that the boys, if they wished, 
could attend more than one in the same evening. The fact remains 
that the boys were in our buildings more of the time and in vastly 
greater numbers than anywhere else excepting their barracks. I was 
always up at six o’clock and very soon thereafter they would begin 
to appear on some errand and at that hour usually in a hurry. Then 
at eleven at night or such hour as the camp regulations at various 
times required, some would have to be urged, with apologies, home- 
ward. The cordiality of the ‘‘goodnights’’ of a bunch of fine, appre- 
ciative fellows sent one to bed happy, however tired. As a matter of 
fact I seldom if ever went to bed then. First a shower (this not 
always in very cold weather!), then into pyjamas and then an hour 
of reading or writing. It was one’s only hour to lounge. Even that 
hour was frequently taken up, never unpleasantly, by a visit from 
some officer who, after the enlisted men were gone, came in to talk 
and smoke. One of these, the senior medical officer of the outfit at 
the time, a reserved middle-aged man, visited me near midnight 
several times—and talked to me of his plans for the future. After 
long years of service he was about to leave the service in which he 
had won high honors. While he would say little of these he told 
me before we parted that he had been honored at one time in a 
manner, the evidence of which he prized above all military prizes. 
He wished me to see his treasure and it was—a letter from a Sister 
Superior in behalf of her community eloquently voicing the gratitude, 
the high regard and the promise of daily remembrance of the 
Sisters for extraordinary help and kindness from him during some 
weeks in the great war. That was his cherished decoration and he 
coneluded his story of their sacrifices and their devotion rather than 
of his work by saying: ‘‘God knows those Sisters helped me far more 
than I was able to help them.’’ The little Welsch Lieut.-Colonel after 
twenty years of service has gone from the army. Wherever he may 
have made his home of this I am sure: no attack on Catholic Sister- 
hoods will pass him unchallanged. I firmly believe from what I have 
heard from enlisted men and from officers that the measure of 
understanding and respect of Catholic belief and practice by non- 
Catholic service men has not yet been given expression. If there 
is one conviction larger than others in what I have learned from 
our work it is the conviction that in no land and at no time were 
there ever servicemen the equals in conduct and character of the 


316 WAR WELFARE WORK 


trained United States service men. I do not speak of undisciplined 
troops, but I have been with the men of several divisions and I have 
marveled and have gloried in their steadiness, cleanliness and cheerful 
devotion. They are intelligent and observing and they return con- 
fidence for trust, in fact they are generous in all their reciprocation. 
Let me give you a single view illustration. At one time a number 
of simultaneous misfortunes, deaths or illnesses in their families and 
other peremptory calls took the other secretaries out of camp and 
left me absolutely alone in headquarters for a week. Though I was 
up at five, to clean up the House before six, I hardly ever sat at 
my desk until night and then—this is the story: I had moving 
pictures five nights of the week, the performance lasting seventy- 
five minutes. Our pictures—the newest and best to be had—were 
very popular. My office was in a corner at the rear of the house. 
When the picture play began the house was dark and all other 
amusements were suspended. I sat in that office with the door 
closed because of the light, trying to get up official records and 
correspondence while more than five hundred husky lads were crowded 
on folding chairs and benches in the hall. I couldn’t see them and 
they knew I was not in the hall, but they were in perfect order, 
making less noise than a box party Grand opera, save when some- 
thing comic would elicit their laughter. Incidentally that same 
crowd needed few sub titles to explain a picture. It was a brainy, 
critical body, and because Casey trusted them and told them the Huts 
and everything in them were their own they preserved order without 
orders and themselves maintained the decency (but oh the jolly, joy- 
ous decency) of Casey’s House. I am frank to say they were not 
so trusted in some other Houses and sometimes they reached, normally 
I think, to apparent distrust. Another thing: I never saw a erap 
game attempted in one of our Houses, though I expect many will not 
believe that statement. Many—most of these men were rough and 
hard boiled, but all were decent. 

Let me tell you of the closing days of our activities. I had seen 
my Department Director in October (1919) in St. Louis, and I was 
prepared for what was probably coming. Nevertheless the order for 
closing down and directing the secretaries (excepting myself) to leave 
camp, came by telegraph and was, though expected, a heavy blow. 
In a day or two I was saying goodbye to a few noble, dear pals, and 
began the tedious process of inventorying, checking, with property 
officers and settling differences of interpretation of the status with 
subordinate officers assigned to transact the government business. 
Then for more than three weeks I was left to await the unwinding 


JAMES F. 0’CONNOR 317 


of official red tape. Those three weeks were almost unbearable, The 
weather was glorious, I had nothing to do. I might have been out 
riding or walking in the hills about, but I dare not leave the house 
lest at any hour a particular Colonel or a more particular Major 
might notify me of their readiness to do some business. I fretted and 
complained, but my superiors directed me to sit tight. I notified 
them I was sitting tight, but I wasn’t sitting pretty, which gave them 
no worry. Finally, I was allowed to go to the General and when he 
learned what I was waiting for and what was not being done he 
started things and officers going some. He put a mere leutenant on 
the job with me, a bashful young lad, but capable and tireless, and 
we put over the job. One day we interrupted our work and washed 
up, the young lad putting on his best uniform. Then we went to 
the Parade Ground where the presesentatives of two Nations pinned 
medals on my lieutenant and the division was reviewed in his honor. 
He helped me much, God bless him! And then a blizzard came and 
the mercury went to 12 degrees below and fuel was scaree, and I had 
to work for weeks in that temperature after helplessly waiting idle 
in the previous fine days until the General stirred things up. I would 
say something of that General, Major Gen. E. F. MacGlachlan, Jr., 
his father being also a General and also Scotch. Sueceeding the 
kindly General Wahl, he came to camp the crustiest, crabbedest, 
hardest-boiled man imaginable. He was especially hard faced towards 
the K. of C., perhaps because he wanted war time rigid discipline, 
and when he came things were relaxed and the men given much free 
time, which most of them passed in our House. I am sure any enlisted 
man—or officer for that matter—who had once been ridden by him 
would go far to avoid a repetition. But the General came to better 
humor with us, though the story of his alteration (there are some 
taughs in that story) shall not be told now. I have a strong letter 
of appreciation of the Knights which he sent to a banquet following 
initiations of the council of Junction City near the camp. He also 
had his executive officer, Major Kroner, speak for him at the banquet, 
and the Major was truly eloquent in expressing ‘his own and his 
General’s high regard for our work abroad and her in camp. On 
one of those last strenuous days the General was with me in our 
No. 1 House going over matters with his Property Officer, who was 
enthusiastic about the valuable properties the Knights were turning 
over to the army. Fearful that his terrifying Commander didn’t 
appreciate how much they were getting he would say something like 
this: ‘‘Sir, see this, we are giving receipts not for one moving picture 
outfit, but for five of them complete, booths and all!’’ And the answer 


318 WAR WELFARE WORK 


came, from a face of Sotch granite, but from a now friendly soul: 
“It is no more than I would expect—from the Knights of Columbus, 
and we shall probably need all they have given us, to help equip 
some other (welfare) houses, which have been stripped bare by the 
late occupants!’’ A few days later I took my leave and this hard- 


boiled Scotch martinet made my eyes misty, by the words of his 
goodbye. 


JAMES FE’. O’ConNor. 
Chicago. 


OLD MISSION “LA POINTE DU SAINT 
ESPRIT” 


**St. Michel’’ it was called in the early days when the Indians 
trailed the Great Lakes region, rich in corn and wild in game. In all 
the whole Northwest, that land of Indian legend and song, you could 
not find a piece of ground more closely woven with Indian life and the 
coming of the white man than this lovely island of Madeline in Lake 
Superior. Proudly did the Indians boast of it as their ‘‘Capital,’’ 
with its virgin forests of pine and birch, its shores fringed with long 
stretches of sandy beach and great red sandstone cliffs, its days filled 
with brilliant sunshine and balsam laden air. 

Romantic authors and tourist agencies have wildly lauded Madeline 
with its natural charms and centuries of historic associations, but in 
their weaving of Indian tradition into fact, they have given a general 
impression ‘‘that the first Jesuit Mission on Lake Superior’s western 
shores was on the island, where the village of La Pointe today stands. 
This is far from true. 

Let your imagination carry you back to the early days of the year 
1659, when the shores of Chequamegon Bay first echoed to the foot- 
steps of the ‘‘ White Face’’ and the Bay was a ? favorite resort of the 
savages. Protected on the east by a long narrow strip of land almost 
meeting the largest island of a group hemming in the Bay on the 
north; the dense forests of the mainland coming down to the sparkling 
waters edge; the open beaches and deep ravines, all offered a secure 
refuge against their enemies, the Iroquois from the east and the Sioux 
from the west. 

2 Radisson and Groseilliers, Fathers Allouez and Marquette—these 
were the brave and high-spirited men who followed each other in the 
discovery of Chequamegon Bay. 

’ Radisson in his records tells how ‘“‘he and Groseilierd (two 
French fur-traders) went half a day and weare foreed to make a 
carriage to a point and as we came to the other sid we weare in a bay 
of 10 leagues about. The same point was a cape very much elevated, 
that should be very fit and advantageous for the building of a fort, 
which we did the following spring. At the end of this bay we landed 


1 Jesuit Relations, 1664-67, p. 297, Allouez letters. 
2 Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 400. 
* Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XI, p. 72. 


319 


320 HELEN CAPPEN 


and we gave thanks to the God of Gods to see ourselves in a place 
where we must forsake our boats.’’ * (The landing was on the. main- 
Jand between what is now Ashland and Washburn.) 


° The writings of Father Allouez to his Superior-General at Quebec, 
of his arrival on the shores of the Bay in 1665 and the naming of his 
Mission, discredit forever the Indian tradition that the first home of 
the Catholic faith was on Madeline Island. ‘‘We chose a site not far 
from where Radisson erected his log fort six years before, and the long 
narrow breakwater of sand and gravel to the east guarding the Bay, 
led me to name the Mission ‘La Pointe du Saint Esprit’ ’’ (Point of © 
the Holy Spirit). 

Only those of us who have read the history of these early mission- 
aries know aught of the varied experiences and hardships which came 
to Father Allouez. Upon landing he erected a rude semblance of an 
altar on the beach, open to the sky, and there the first service on those 
shores was celebrated with Water and the Word, which deeply im- 
pressed the great crowds of redmen, who watched the arrival of the 
‘‘Black Gown’’ and his strange actions. 


With the help of some friendly Indians, who volunteered to hew 
the logs, and cut and shape the timbers, the log Mission hut was built, 
which Father Allouez named ‘‘La Pointe du Saint Esprit’’ and opened 
to the curious savages who came from far and near in warpaint and 
feathers, to listen to his words. 


Life was not an easy one for the Jesuit Fathers among the villages 
and clearings. The wigwams and rude log huts, each with only a hole 
in the roof to let the smoke out, were dirty and unkept. The con- 
tinual quarreling of the natives, the noisy play of the children and 
dogs, the feasts and ceremonies of Indian life with their songs and 
danees and wild music, and the racket made by the ‘‘medicine men’’ 
in their efforts to drive the evil spirits away, were all most annoying. 
Wirm in his simple faith that the evil one dwelt only in the minds of 
the scheming ‘‘medicine men,’’ Father Allouez was hard pressed to 
heal with the few simple remedies of the white man he had on hand, 
and to make the Indians lose faith in the power of their various Gods. 
There were dangerous journeys to be taken, rough trails to be treaded 
with great difficulty, and toilsome trips with paddle and canoe back 
and forth. Sometimes he went alone, again with the redskins for com- 
panions, when to keep the peace he good-naturedly shouldered his 


* Thwaite’s History ‘‘ Father Marquette,’’ p. 70. 
* Jesuit Relations, 1666-67, Allouez letters. 


OLD MISSION ‘‘LA POINTE DU SAINT ESPRIT’’ 321 


share of the burden. Welcome and unwelcome were his visits, * often 
he was buffeted by the hostility of the savages, and many a time worn 
out and with hands raw from the paddle, he had to build himself a 
shelter to lay his head. 

Many were the difficulties and discouragements, but faith did not 
fail the brave Jesuit Father. * These were a lost people with various 
gods in the sky, the air, the water, the woods and the earth. * The 
salvation of souls was at stake and unselfishly he gave of himself to 
earry out the work of the Church, to visit the sick and the dying, to 
baptize and instruct those who were willing to learn the Gospel, and 
to strive to teach the Indians better ways of living. It is told of Father 
Allouez that ‘‘during a season of storms the natives crowded along the 
shore one morning and cast food and clothing into the waves as a 
sacrifice to the Storm God, wildly beating their drums and shrieking 
at the top of their voices. But the rain did not cease and past the 
noon-hour a darkness fell and all were sore afraid. Father Allouez, 
who had been quietly moving about among the different groups, re- 
paired to the Mission and spent several hours in prayer, after which 
_the clouds disappeared and the sun made a glorious sunset. A large 
number of the Indians embraced the faith because Father Allouez’s 
prayer had banished the storm, but the majority forgot it in wild 
chanting and dancing.”’ 

® Patiently he labored at his task day after day, gaining a little 
band of converts, until after four long years broken in health and 
saddened at heart, he was transferred to ‘‘a more favorable surround- 
ing,’’ and the Mission ‘‘La Pointe du Saint Esprit’’ stood silent and 

alone. 
' But not for long. 1° Years before in 1637 in the ancient city of 
Laon, about eighty-seven miles outside of Paris, whose buildings testify 
to stirring scenes in the troubled history of France, was born Jacques 
Marquette, 11 whose ancestors were valient men in the many conflicts 
within its walls, and distinguished in diplomatic and political life. 
Born into the luxury and wealth of one of the most prominent families 
_ of this rocky fortress city, noted for its piety and learning, this high- 
spirited youth in his seventeenth year discarded a life of statesmanship 


* Jesuit Relations, 1664-67, p. 305, Allouez letters. 

' Jesuit Relations, 1664-67, p. 285. 

§ Jesuit Relations, 1664-67, p. 281. 

® Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 406. 
” Hedges’ History ‘‘ Father Marquette,’’ p. 18. 

1 Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 397. 


322 HELEN CAPPEN 


in surrender to the Service of the Cross. 7” In September, 1669, brav- 
ing the perils of the vast unknown and the early winter of the northern 
lakes, with its tempestuous storms and varying winds which laid a 
deep blanket of snow on the ground and piled it high in drifts, and 
covered the rivers and creeks with ice, this young Jesuit was on his 
way to the farthest French outposts of the American wilderness, from 
Sault Ste. Marie. 

His description of the long journey and his arrival at the Mission 
is too long to repeat, but 7° ‘‘he found the Hurons to the number of 
500 souls all baptized, although they were far demoralized by the 
example of their neighbors, and retained but little of the old faith.”’ 
The Ottawa tribes were unusually superstitious, but seeing that Father 
Marquette was the bearer of presents, the savages in robes of fur and 
feathers, and belts of gayly colored beads, listened attentively as he 
proclaimed the Gospel. 

A great Council was held shortly after his arrival, and he was 
invited to be present. There for the first time he heard of the large 
nation who were to end his work and that of Father Allouez on those 
shores. This holy man of vigorous spirits and joyous disposition, 
entered into his work with a zeal and enthusiasm rare in the annals of 
any church. He familiarized himself with the Indian customs and 
quickly grew accustomed to their corn and smoked meats, which made 
friends of the mocassined redskins, although he did not know their 
language perfectly. His days were long ones, spent in visiting, reli- 
gious services, teachings and instruction, the making of weapons and 
dishes for personal use, and the procuring of fish and game for food. 


Marvelous was the care and taste displayed by him in decorating 
the interior of the Mission hut, with pictures of the Holy Family and 
the Saints, and a few silver vessels, and there he baptized the children 
and held services with all the ceremonies of the Church. Certain days 
were set for the older men to come and be instructed, while the children 
gathered every day to study the Prayers and the Catechism. 


Often did his labors take him to the island of St. Michel, the largest 
of the group hemming in Chequamegon Bay on the north. The sav- 
ages found the island, with its dense forests, a safety spot for their 
women and children against their enemies, and here the wandering 
tribes camped and spent their days in hunting and fishing, and plant- 


% Jesuit Relations, 1669-71, p. 169, Marquette letters. 
8 Jesuit Relations, 1669-71, p. 169, Marquette letters. 


’ 


OLD MISSION ‘‘LA POINTE DU SAINT ESPRIT’’ 323 


ing small fields with corn and squashes and tobacco. The Relations, 
1670-71, describe well the close of Father Marquette’s labors about the 
Bay. ‘‘A certain warlike people called the Sioux had made themselves 
feared by all their neighbors. They lived near and on the banks of the 
great river Misisipi in fifteen villages, and know not how to till the 
soil. The Indians about the bay had thus far maintained a sort of 
peace with them, but relations became embroiled during the winter, 
and fearing that the storm might break over them at any moment, it 
was deemed best to leave their location.’’ 1‘ Before this Father Mar- 
quette had often sent these western warriors religious pictures, but 
with a declaration of war these were returned. Little time was 
given for deliberation. 


The splendid hunting and fishing had to be abandoned, as well as 
their cultivated fields, and speedy runners carried the message of the 
Sioux to the distant villages. Large stores of dried foods were col- 
lected in the Mission. And on St. Michel Island, famed for its birch, 
did the Hurons cut and hew the wood, and construct the hundreds of 
canoes with cedar ribs and coverings of white birch, the whole so light 
they could be carried on the back. * The Hurons decided to return 
to their earlier home on the island of Michilimackinac, near the Sault, 
where a Mission had been established, and the 7° Ottawas to Manitoulen 
Island in Lake Huron. Through all the preparations for departure 
moved the spiritual-face and form of the brave Father, whose words 
and counsel carried great weight with the redskins. 


From Indian tradition comes the story that ‘‘when all the canoes 
were packed and ready, the ‘‘Black Gown”’ held a farewell service in 
the Mission hut, repeating the service of the Church and praying a 
safe return for them all to their old homes in the east. And when the 
little crafts were well started on their journey of five hundred miles 
and more Father Marquette dropped his paddle, and with bowed head 
and uplifted hand spoke a ‘‘benediction’’ as the forest-mantled shores 
sank from sight in the West. 

17 Forever was the little Mission ‘‘La Pointe du Saint Esprit’’ 
deserted. Never again in the history of New France was the region 
about the Bay called ‘‘La Pointe’’ after the Mission, to hear the foot- 
prints and echo to the words of a Christian missionary, abandoned to 


_ the Indian and the fur trader. 


4 Jesuit Relations, 1671-72, p. 115, Marquette letters. 
% Jeswit Relations, 1671-72, p. 117, Marquette letters. 
1% Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 407. 
" Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 407. 


324. HELEN CAPPEN 


Let us turn our thoughts to the island of St. Michel, whose southern 
portion was named La Pointe by the fur-trader. The Indians first 
settled on the island in 1490, after which strange pictures follow each 
other down history’s pages. 7% The savages lived and ruled upon the 
island and yearly battled with their enemies, the Sioux, on the main- 
land. 


Then came a quarter of a century when the island was vacated by 
the Indians, because of the fanatic ideas of the ‘‘medicine men’’ that 
evil spirits dwelt there. 


In 1726 the first trading post was established, due to the island’s 
fine harbor and protected position. For years the island was the head- 
quarters for the entire Northwest, for the fur-trading business. 1° In 
the same year New France sent Le Seuer to build a fort on the island, 
because the Sioux claimed title to the mainland and the island, and 
the latter was a safer position. *° The fort was established to protect 
the traders, and it was the frontier post of the French government 
with a host of officials and the rigid discipline of a military post, until 
1763, when the French surrendered to the English, who never occupied 
the island, but moved everything of value to the Sault. 


Here is another picture. 71 Karly in the 19th century Michael 
Cadotte, an ancestor of the Cadotte family, still living on the island, 
founded a settlement on its southern shore and called it ‘‘La Pointe.”’ 
A short time later he married the daughter of one of the prominent 
Chippewa Chiefs, ‘‘White Crane,’’ and took her to Montreal to be 
educated. There she became a convert to the Catholic faith, and 
received the French name of Madeline, and on her return the name of 
the island was changed to ‘‘Madeline.’’ 


In 1812 Congress passed a law forcing the Hudson Bay and North- 
west Fur Trading Companies, established on the island, to return to 
Canada and the American Fur Trading Company took their place. 


Down the years the. Catholic missionaries bravely kept the Gospel 
light burning on the island. The old Catholic cemetery, still standing 
near the southern shore, testifies to their labors, the white slabs and 
little dilapidated wooden huts called ‘‘dog houses,’’ bearing the names 
of many Chiefs who reigned upon the island, their braves, and noted 
men of the French occupation. 


% Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. IV, pp. 232-233. 
* Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XIII, p. 408. 

** Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. IV, p. 247. 

** Hedges’ History ‘‘ Father Marquette,’’ p. 20. 


OLD MISSION ‘‘LA POINTE DU SAINT ESPRIT’’ 325 


22 Tn 1835 Father Barago erected a chapel of logs by the side of the 
Indian graveyard, just 165 years after Father Marquette had closed 
his Mission on the mainland to the south. This building was enlarged 
in 1841, and stood until only a few years ago when it was destroyed 
by fire, together with a famous painting, ‘‘Descent from the Cross.’’ 
23 Indian tradition claims that the picture belonged to Father Mar- 
quette and was placed in his Mission on the island. But here again 
tradition falls far short of the truth. For when Father Barago re- 
turned to Rome in 1840 to secure funds to enlarge his chapel, the 
picture by an Italian painter was presented to him by the Pope. That 
it belonged to Father Marquette is absurd, for surely he would not 
have left such a valuable article behind him on his departure from 
Chequamegon Bay. 

The date is uncertain when the Sioux finally yielded the island to 
the Chippewas, who took possession, but it was early in the eighteenth 
century. Buffalo, the most prominent Chief of all the great Chiefs of 
the Chippewas, often told of the first Council Fires of the Chippewas, 
which were kindled on the island, and were kept burning until the 
white men put them out. 

Old Treaty Hall (a long, low wooden building still standing a 
memorial to the past) was built in 1836, and there the Indian Chiefs 
and braves assembled once a year in war-paint and feathers to receive 
their dollar allowance from the ‘‘ White Father’’ at Washington. And 
in October, 1842, Poganegoshik with other Chippewa Chiefs ceded all 
their lands to the United States. 

Then—the sad ending to a long historic life; the United States 
took a hand in the life of the redman and established the Odanah 
Reservation on the mainland in 1854, and the Indians were transferred 
there, to be slowly taught the teachings of civilization. The beautiful 
island was left to the pursuits of a few fishermen and fur-traders, and 
‘‘La Pointe,’’ once the County Seat, and a setting for many historical 
events in connection with the development and settlement of the © 
‘‘Great North Land’’ became a quiet little country village, and the 
Catholic Mission was transferred to the Reservation under the charge 
ef Father Barago, now a Bishop. 

Thus reads the story of the old Mission ‘‘La Pointe du Saint 
Esprit,’’ founded by Father Allouez, which under Marquette ended in 


2 Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XII, p. 445. 
23 Wisconsin Historical Collection, Vol. XII, p. 446, footnote. 


326 HELEN CAPPEN 


failure; the settlement of ‘‘La Pointe’’ on St. Michel Island, which has 
survived the years. Time has changed Madeline Island, but to those 
of us who know the history of the region round about Chequamegon 
Bay, the name of the little village of ‘‘La Pointe’’ on the island calls 
forth more than mere interest in its few relics, for one’s mind dwells 
on the lives of the brave and faithful Jesuit Fathers, whose Mission 
was the frontier post of the Faith. 


HELEN CApPpPEN. 
Milwaukee. 


MONSIGNOR DANIEL J. RIORDAN 


‘‘No one knew him but to love him.’’ Monsignor Riordan wrote 
these words a short time ago in this magazine in memory of Dr. 
Dennis Dunne, Vicar General of the diocese under Bishop Duggan. 
They may be fittingly said of himself. 

When on Tuesday, February 14, death claimed Monsignor Daniel 
J. Riordan there passed from our midst one of the best known, most 
highly honored and most dearly loved priests in all Chicago. He 
was ever intensely human, sympathetic in all trouble, kindly at all 
times, with a keen sense of humor and yet always with a little back- 
ground of dignity and reserve which made one feel that one was in 
the presence of a priest of the Most High. 

Born in Kansale, County Cork, Ireland, August 6, 1846, he came 
to Chicago with his parents in April, 1848. He attended the parochial 
school at St. Patrick’s parish near which church his family resided. 
In 1859 he entered the University of St. Mary of the Lake and one 
of the last bits of writing he ever did was the history of that institu- 
tion, forerunner of all the great schools and the magnificent Seminary 
of the present day, an article which appeared in this magazine in 
October, 1919. . | 

He remained at St. Mary of the Lake until 1868, with the exception 
of one year passed at the seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, Niagara 
Falls, New York. In 1863 he went to Belgium and studied two years 
in the Petit Seminaire of Malines. From 1865 to 1869 he was a 
student at the American College of Louvain where he studied philos- 
ophy and theology. He was ordained at Malines, Belgium, May 22, 
1869. He remained one year in Germany and Italy spending most of 
the time in Rome where he was present at the opening of the Vatican 
Council, December 8, 1869. He returned to Chicago in September, 
1870, and was appointed to take charge of St. Rose’s Parish, Wilming- 
ton, Ill. 

In October, 1872, he was made chaplain of Merey Hospital and 
one year later appointed chancellor and secretary to Bishop Thomas 
Foley. He continued in this office until his appointment by Arch- 
bishop Feehan, the successor of Bishop Foley, to take charge of a 
new parish, the confines of which were Thirty-Seventh Street on the 
north, Forty-Seventh Street on the south, the Rock Island railroad 
tracks on the west, and Grand Boulevard on the east. We many 
of us remember that old frame church which for many years had 


served as St. Anne’s parish church, and had originally been a Jewish 
327 


328 MARY ONAHAN GALLERY 


synagogue. Indeed there was some lamentation among Father 
- Riordan’s friends who felt that he was being sent into exile so poor 
and out of the way was the parish. St. Elizabeth of Hungary was 
chosen as the patroness of the church, because it was on her feast, 
November 19, 1881, that the order for moving the church from its 
original location at Fifty-Fifth and Wentworth Avenue to the new 
location at Thirty-Ninth and Root Street was given. 


ae 


The first Mass was said in the church by Father Riordan on 


Christmas day, 1881. The parish grew rapidly and a few years later 
another church was built whose cornerstone was laid by Most Rev. 
Patrick Augustus Feehan, D.D., in 1884. It was dedicated on 
November 1, 1884, by Monsignor Riordan’s brother, the Most Rev- 
erend Patrick W. Riordan, D. D., then coadjutor bishop of San 
Francisco, afterwards archbishop of that see. aks 

Later property at the corner of Wabash Avenue and Forty- 
First was purchased and the cornerstone of the present church was 
Jaid in April, 1891. The church was dedicated on June 18, 1892, by 
the Most Reverend Patrick Augustine Feehan, D.D. It sometimes 
seems as if those were the days of great oratory in the Church. All 
Chicago was present at the dedication. Rt. Rev. John Lancaster 
Spalding, Bishop of Peoria, preached at the morning service, Rt. 
Rey. John J. Keane, Bishop of Dubuque at the evening celebration. 
There were many comparisons of the two sermons. Both were 
splendid orations, quite different in style and in delivery but equally 
moving in their fervid appeal. 

Indeed it is impossible to write of Monsignor Riordan without 
alluding to his wide and influential circle of friends. First among 
them was that shining light in the American church, Rt. Rev. John 
Lancaster Spalding of Peoria. Rather small in stature with keen 
gleaming eyes and alert in all his movements he impressed one 
instantly as a live wire, if one may use a colloquialim in speaking 
of a dignitary of the Church. Indeed Bishop Spalding himself would 
have abruptly disclaimed the charge that he was a dignitary of any 
sort. His own shafts of satire and ridicule were often merciless. 
Even his brother bishops did not always escape them. 

At the golden jubilee of Notre Dame University, Bishop Spalding 
gave the address in the afternoon from the front porch of the main 
building. Grouped around and back of him were bishops in their 
purple robes from all parts of the country and in the centre the ven- 
erable and smiling Cardinal Gibbons. The campus was thronged with 
people. They even crowded up the great wide steps of the portico. 
Just a few feet below Bishop Spalding was a veteran member of the 


Rr. Rev. Msar. DAINIEL J. RIORDA 


46, died February 14, 1922. 


Born August 6, 1 


s 
r MONSIGNOR DANIEL J. RIORDAN 329 


se Order of Hibernians with his green regalia around his neck 

and the white feather on his hat considerably bedraggled and the 

_ worse for wear. His hands were lifted and joined as if he were in 

~ ehureh as he gazed at the bishop with a look of absolute reverence or. 
his face. Bishop Spalding had chosen as his subject ‘‘ Hero Worship,’’ 
and he was inveighing against the propensity of young people to make 
heroes out of characters who were not worthy. He cited a number of 

instances and then with a malicious twinkle in his eye and with a slight 
sweep back of him he exclaimed: ‘‘Put a bit of purple on a man and 
he is a hero.’’ There was a noticeable restlessness in the rear, a smile 
flittered over Cardinal Gibbons’ face, but the look on the countenance 
of the Ancient Hibernian was at first puzzled, then aghast, then tran- 
quility came again with the thought that a Bshop had said this, so of 
course it must be all right. 

Another warm friend of Father Riordan was the great archbishop 
of St. Paul, Most Reverend John Ireland. They spent many evenings 
together at my father’s house and one of the delights of my girlhood 
was sitting in a corner of that book lined parlor with its blazing grate 
fire and listening to the conversation of these high lights of the Church. 

- The then Bishop of St. Paul and Bishop of Peoria were devoted 
friends quite dissimilar in character. Bishop Spalding was a great 
tease. He would poke fun at Bishop Ireland and torment him cease- 
lessly. Bishop Ireland would just smile and rub his hands together, 
a favorite gesture of his, ignore his adversary completely until the 
shafts became too keen when suddenly he would make a swift and 
telling retort and there would be general laughter. Bishop Spalding 
would subside for a while. Then he would begin again. And so the 
evening would pass. ‘‘Father Dan,’’ as he was always affectionately 
called by all who knew him, would listen mostly in amused silence to 
this battle of wit, though sometimes he, too, would take part in the 
affray backed up by my father. 

These mectings were more frequent during the existence of the 
Trish Catholic Colonization Association, of which they formed the most 
active part. This society had been formed for the purpose of getting 

people away from the crowded tenement districts of the great cities 
out on to the farms. Colonies were started in Minnesota, Nebraska and 
Arkansas. In spite of some setbacks, noticeably the ructions raised by 
the Connemara contingent, the Society did a great amount of good. 
father Riordan was one of its most active members. 

He was also greatly interested in the welfare of the colored people. 
His kindliness of character had a great attraction for them. Just a 
few months before he died while paying me a little visit he told an 


330 MARY ONAHAN GALLERY 


amusing story which illustrated this. He was sent for to the parlor 
one day as a ‘‘colored lady’’ wished to see him. When he entered the 
room a large colored woman rose up, telling him that she had come to 
take the pledge. She wished to take it in ‘‘writin’ ’’ and to take effect 
two days later. 

‘‘But why do you not take it from today?’’ asked Father Riordan. 

‘‘Well, you see,’’ she replied, ‘‘tomorrow is the Fourth of July and 
there is to be a pienie.’’ 

‘‘Oh, I see,’’ said Father Riordan, ‘‘but don’t you think that is 
rather a bad plan? Hadn’t you better take it from today? You live 
in this parish I presume ?”’ 

‘‘Oh, no, I don’t,’’ she answered. 

‘‘What parish do you live in?’’ he asked. 

‘“‘Well, Father, I don’t jest rightly know. You see, I ain’t no 
Catholic, but I’ve seen you, heard you talk and I knew if I took the 
pledge from you in writin’ I’d keep it.’’ So did his influence extend 
outside of his own Church to the wayward of other faiths. Father 
Riordan officiated at the Baptism of my second son, John Ireland, in 
the chapel of the old Sacred Heart Convent on Taylor Street. Coming 
over for dinner after the christening, he said as he entered, ‘‘ You 
won’t mind if I bring my altar boy with me to dinner ?’’ 

‘“Not at all,’’ I said. ‘‘Anyone whom you wish to bring is wel- 
come,’’ though a bit puzzled at the request. A few moments later the 
altar boy appeared in the person of the silvery haired and venerable 
Monsignor Nugent of Liverpool, an old friend of the family, who had 
arrived unexpectedly in town and had offered himself as an altar boy 
for the ceremony. Everyone said it was the most beautiful and im- 
pressive Baptism they had ever seen. Even the christening of a 
younger brother a few years later by Cardinal Satolli did not compare 
with it. Perhaps those two splendid priests had something to do with 
the vocation that has come to that boy baptized in the dim old convent 
chapel. 

It has always been generally supposed that Father Riordan was 
more than once offered episcopal honors, but he preferred to remain at 
the church and among the people that he loved. In March, 1917, upon 
the recommendation of the Most Reverend George W. Mundelein, he 
was raised to the dignity of domestie prelate with the title of mon- 
signor. It was an impressive scene in that beautiful Gothie church of 
St. Elizabeth. One little incident perhaps passed unnoticed. The 
High altar was aglow with lights and flowers, the church was crowded 
to the doors with friends from all over the city. A stately procession 
moved up the centre aisle and with the Archbishop in his gorgeous 


MONSIGNOR DANIEL J. RIORDAN 331 


robes of purple and ermine was the black clad figure of the new as- 
pirant whom everybody called lovingly, ‘‘ Father Dan.’’ 

As he passed the front pew in which sat his beloved sister, Mrs. 
Thomas Lilly, he turned and looked at her. It was such a look of ten- 
derness and solocitude as those who saw will never forget. Happy the 
sister who had such a brother! 

St. Elizabeth’s witnessed one more scene in the history of this 
zealous priest who had served it so many years. Never did it look less 
mournful than on the morning of his funeral, and it was fitting that it 
- should be so. There was mourning of course, there were tears in many 
eyes for the dear, kind friend that was gone, but deeper than all this 
there were uplifted hearts and the feeling that the Master whom he 
had so faithfully served had gently taken him home. Chicago will miss 
him greatly, but it preserves a splendid and beautiful memory of this 
tall, ascetic looking, gentle voiced priest who toiled faithfully and 
well for so many golden years for the Master in whose service he had 
enrolled. 

Rt. Rev. Edward F. Hoban celebrated High Mass, Rev. P. W. 
Dunne served as deacon, Rev. Thomas Farrell as sub-deacon and 
Mgr. M. D. Connolly of San Francisco, was assistant priest. The 
last absolution was pronounced by Rt. Rev. Edmund Dunne of 
Peoria. Among those present were Bishop Ledvina of Corpus Christi, 
Texas, many Monsignori and over one hundred and fifty priests. 

The sermon was preached by Rt. Rev. A. J. MeGavick and was 
eloquent and touching. It dealt solely with Monsignor Riordan’s 
life as a priest and the thought was voiced that as a priest he would 
ever be remembered in this city that loved him so well. 


Mary ONAHAN GALLERY. 
Chicago. 


Nlinais Catholic Historical Society 


617 ASHLAND BLOCK, CHICAGO 


HONORARY PRESIDENTS 
Most Rev. George William Mundelein, D. D., Chicago 


Rt. Rev. James Ryan, D.D., Alton Rt. Rev. Edmund M. Dunne, D.D., Peoria 
Rt. Rev. Peter J. Muldoon, D. D., Rockford Rt. Rev. Henry Althoff, D. D., Belleville 
OFFICERS 
PRESIDENT : FINANCIAL SECRETARY 
Rev. Frederic Siedenburg, 8S. J., Chicago Marie Sheahan, Chicago 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT FIRST RECORDING SECRETARY 
Edward Osgood Brown, Chicago Margaret Madden, Chicago 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT SECOND RECORDING SECRETARY 
James M. Graham, Springfield Helen Troesch, Springfield 
TREASURER ARCHIVIST 
John P. V. Murphy, Chicago Rev. A. J. Wolfgarten, Ohicago 
TRUSTEES 
Rt. Rev. Daniel J. Riordan, Chicago Michael F. Girten, Chicago 
Very Rev. James Shannon, Peoria James A. Bray, Joliet 
Very Rev. William H. Agnew, S.J. Frank J. Seng, Wilmette 
Rev. John Webster Melody, Chicago William F. Ryan, Ohicago 
Mrs. Daniel V. Gallery, Chicayo William N. Brown, Oak Park 


Allinnis Catholic Historical Rebiewn 
Journal of the Illinois Catholic Historical Society 
917 ASHLAND BLOCK, CHICAGO 


EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 


JOCDUY 5k MOMPSON cee crisis ie tere eee Ohicago 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Rev. Frederick Beuckman........ Belleville. i Kate |Meade' ts 52.44 tas @ onietaeunt Ohicago 
GV cd tsp CMICIIGNS « ciciess te ets se NAc. Moline Rev. Francis J. Epstein. ........-- Chicago 
William Stetson Merrill............. Chicago 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 


Current History.—While the January number of the ILLINOIS CATHOLIC 
HISTORICAL REVIEW was in course of preparation some momentous events to 
become, beyond doubt, important history have occurred. The greatest of these 
of course is the death of Pope Benedict XV, and the selection of his successor, 
Pius XI. This great pontiff has long since been incorporated in the world’s 
history. He was a man of great importance even before his selection to the 
chief pastorate of Christendom, but almost every act performed by him since 
his elevation to the Chair of Peter has been such as true history is made of. 
He came to his exalted office at a juncture when every day’s doings were translat- 
ing themselves into history. He found the whole world in the throes of de- 
structive war, the forces of malignant hate and anger dominating civil society, 
and more than any and all others his was the voice raised for peace. He, almost 
alone, represented the doctrine of love and forbearance. Despite the fact that 


332 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 333 


_ civil governments under the influence of passion and prejudice turned a deaf ear 
to his appeals, he continued his importunities, and by sheer force of righteousness 
kept alive the spark of human brotherhood, almost extinguished in the counsels 
of men. In moments of hate and anger some of the parties to the conflict 
purported to discern favoritism in isolated acts or expressions of the Holy Father, 
but even before his death it was conceded beyond controversy that his every act 
was that of a true father solicitous for the welfare of all of his children. His 
life ended, Pope Benedict XV, though virtually ignored by the ruling powers, 
will take his place in history as the most worthy outstanding character of the 
great world war. At the close of this magnificent career another figure takes 
an advance position on the pages of history, that of Achille Ratti, Pope Pius XI. 
The story of the new pope will however bear postponement. A current event of 
singular interest to the Church in America, and especially in Chicago and the West, 
was the elevation of Msgr. Edward Francis Hoban to the Episcopal dignity. Per- 
haps in no instance have ability and popularity been so happily combined as in 
the case of Bishop Hoban. On account of these notable events we have felt 
justified in holding the publication of the present number beyond the usual time, 
and we commend especially the article concerning the papacy by the distinguished 
newspaper man, Anthony Zearnecki, to the perusal of our readers. 


Death of a Beloved Pastor. It is with sorrow that we chronicle the death 
of Rt. Rev. Msgr. Daniel J. Riordan. After this number of the Inuinors CATH- 
oLIC HisToRIcCAL REVIEW had gone to press the sad intelligence reached us of 
the demise of this distinguished clergyman, especially dear to those connected with 
the ILLINOIS CATHOLIC HISTORICAL SocIETY, since from its inception he has been 
not only chairman of the board of directors, but a most beloved associate and 
wise counsellor. Msgr. Riordan had of course outlived the allotted three score 
and ten. but he was so astute as to make men forget his age and ascribe his 
ripeness and acumen to a depth of knowledge. Amongst all the clergymen of the 
archdiocese of Chicago, tenderly regarded as most of them are, there was 
perhaps none more revered than Father Riordan. All who knew him could wish 
him length of years. Mary Onahan Gallery has written a biography of the 
late Monsignor which will be found in this number of the ILLINOIS CATHOLIC 
HISTORICAL REVIEW. 


BOOK REVIEWS 


The Catholic Church in Chicago 1673-1871. Rev. Gilbert J. Gar- 
raghan, S.J. Loyola University Press, 1921. 

This neat volume of 236 pages contains an intimate and very 
interesting story of the Catholie Church in Chicago prior to the great 
fire of 1871, by a writer that has made himself familiar to the 
readers of historical publications in the Middle West during recent 
years, Rev. Gilbert J. Garraghan, S.J., of the St. Louis University. 

Father Garraghan divides his story into nine chapters under the 
following headings: Early Missionary Visitors, The Pastorate of 
Father St. Cyr, 1833-1834, Bishop Bruté and the Mission of Chicago, 
The Pastorate of Father St. Cyr, 1834-1837, Bishop Quarter, Bishop 
Van de Velde, Bishop O’Regan, Bishop Duggan, Bishop Foley and 
the Fire of 1871. 

The first sentence in this interesting book challenges attention: 
‘‘No other state of the Middle West traces its historical beginnings 
more remotely into the past than does Chicago.’’ While as the 
writer says, the civic organization of Chicago dates only from the 
third, decade of the nineteenth century, yet ‘‘long before the close of 
the seventeenth century the locality that was to see its growth had 
found a place in the permanent records of the times. As early as 
1688 the name of the city had been written into the geography of 
the day, Franquelin’s famous map of that year showing ‘Fort 
Chicagou’ on the site of the future metropolis; and this thirteen 
years before Cadillac founded Detroit, seventy-six before LaClede 
set up his trading post in St. Louis, and a hundred before Denham 
and Patterson planted the village that was to develop into Cin- 
cinnati.’’ 

These remarks serve to introduce the earliest explorers, Father 
James Marquette, S.J., and Louis Jolliet, and the story of their 
journey down the Mississippi and across what became the state of 
Illinois and the site of Chicago, as well as the missionaries, the 
first heralds of Christianity and civilization that sueceeded Father 
Marquette. 

Painstakingly Father Garraghan traces each subsequent visitor 
to the site of Chicago during the seventeenth, eighteenth and very 
early years of the nineteenth centuries, all of whom during that 
period were Catholics. Through the story runs the names of Father 
Marquette, Allouez, Rale, Gravier, Pinet, Bineteau, and Marest, 


334 


BOOK REVIEWS 335 


Jesuits, De la Ribourde, Membre and Hennepin, Recollect Franciscans, 
Montigny, Davion and St. Cosme, Fathers of the Foreign Missions 
of Quebec, Richard and Badin, Sulpitians,—all of these in the early 
days before there was a legal organization as town or city. The 
reverend historian has enriched this part of the story with numerous 


_ authoritative letters, documents and references, thus building up the 


most satisfactory account of the period that has been written. 


Father Garraghan’s account of the new Chicago, if from necessity, 
different than the chapters preceding, is nevertheless absorbingly 
interesting. Here he traces not the missionaries alone, but the 
earliest inhabitants, descending to details, and providing an intimate 
relation of the men who laid the foundations of Chicago and of the 
events which were the forerunners of the stupendous development of 
the great city. 


Not before has the story of the establishment of the Church in 
what may be called modern Chicago been so well told. Rev. John 
Mary Iranaeus St. Cyr, the first Chicago pastor of modern days, 
_eame from St. Louis, sent by Rt. Rev. Joseph Rosati, Bishop of the 
diocese of St. Louis. The records and correspondence relative to 
Father St. Cyr’s assignment and administration remain in the 
archives of the archdiocese. Father Garraghan has for some years 
earefully studied these and was accordingly highly qualified to write 
an authoritative account. He was besides reared in Chicago and 
intimately acquainted with locations and traditions, and, accordingly, 
when he mentions the location of a church or building he knows 
whereof he speaks. In this connection Father Garraghan has brought 
out numerous facts that have not before been made entirely plain. 


It is peculiarly fortunate that Father Garraghan should have 
undertaken the project of writing an account of the Catholic Church 
in Chicago, due to the fact that although the Chicago diocese was 
ereated in 1843, the territory soon became a part of the ecclesiastical 
Province of St. Louis, and while the first bishop, the Rt. Rev. Wiliam 
Quarter, D. D., was selected from the parent diocese of Baltimore, 
the immediately succeeding bishops came from St. Louis, and while 
Father Garraghan has given an admirable account of the administra- 
tion of Bishop Quarter, he was peculiarly at home in detailing the 
record of Rt. Rev. James Oliver Van de Velde, the immediate suc- 
cessor of Bishop Quarter, and that of Rt. Rev. Anthony O’Regan, 
next in succession, and Rt. Rev. James Duggan, all three of whom 
came from St. Louis. The first was a Jesuit prior to his consecration, 


336 BOOK REVIEWS 


the others betimes instructors in the colleges or seminaries of § i 
Louis. By a search of the records of his order Father Garraghan h é 
been able to give us numerous new facts of interest relatin: zt 
Bishop Van de Velde. The arehdiocesan archives freely drawn u an 
by Father Garraghan also furnish numerous interesting details 
bishops O’Regan and Duggan. a ; 
The story closes with the early years of the administration 0: 
Rt. Rev. Thomas Foley and the dreadful fire, with its destruct i 
and loss. Bax : 
Through the story runs the interesting account of educatiohl nal 
development, the parochial schools, the convents, the colleges an d 
universities, the relation of the Church to the development of 1 the | 
community, the record of the part played in the civil war, and in 
general the story of points of general contact with all civil. and 
secular affairs. mt ! 
The reverend author has conferred a signal benefit by the publiel 
tion of this very interesting volume. H 


a8 
nag 


Puri lasstotrcatalt aA bee She Made Th Janet Medd te pe esd tiaras i 
a diets 


ae eta Brera ca SUL ROE Saree! Fadl avephete vend 


th : i a it } 
ferase arian ict th a : sprieira wae dedroeareri 
oe Hh isin ier PeeUBRr RL Ree RiBlse Ui f 
nya \ steele tt mish amr asin Wale vbr: keaeet 
f elke Y/ Oepet sO hee y avag oF | oa! Oi 
pea Hokdnes Se ; ; ‘ bir Smt" ferie ny ts Wetman d @F Maries f t Luearet 
arenes Srtertans : abun Pinte eens tecbays ecco arse irigttere 
5 Myo gda mays. 2 ey Lean ae burg bp sel » | ho rag lrert cute 
‘ mo reat { 


; f y Pie 
. be * N : re 
+ cebeil i ea is Bl iy ‘ ? Velo 
forint i pipe te bag Picante) SB ep he Gini! ey dw 


Sil ensimas ° 
ae - 
i eiaelaty 


eal is ts 4 . 
yh pie he Me Passa BD het of PREETI RUE 3 y bed p 
ryt TiRBDOEA TG Cai aaai) pedi i oe Ps a wnt 2 Dritede by . 
‘ pnerbel Wore Behe ite te spadeodnehey enh as parcint dake iret rere 
De phate rood sie ees ante st ae 


“ahs MKate 
a pies 


y 
td 


fd Y 
i 
ti 


$ 


beibed aed mearie 
ie ide tbe, 4 papi 
ate nay iat 
as ceahinieer’ ate oi 
it 
oe 


‘4 ai , 8 
yuent 
Le “ 


fy 
HT ih 
be hme eye 


Pe y 
ye . 


ie ta \ 
Aiteheh ya 

sient 

alate ati 


= BS ges SS SST a4 : 4 a! c 
oibpate le sergesd2 ett 35922" isasee 
RPS re Peete tase pate e pets 
Frc: Ae ase ye s3 


: Rate 
J ’ Y iy i ee 
i Hah gnats 
ih pe i) ‘ity ith i 
Ta ERD Na rin. 
aise Hip Hil ny 


tke 


Nyc vehe bey 


ae 


Jie di 


ae 
UP ins 
V0 


ale 

yale 

try ber Liviaciy dat ook 

is athe et ih Rants hs tae 
th bh fs Mg My wh 


as 


Pm Revs Neg ag 
AA i Bi 
spine Tg dof 4) iat 
are hee ION Dba veal 
M #ostabep EP ie ety Wt 
eA a OER Mel ah obe hopes 
ta Paatcas 
re Main 4 
Big ats iG ‘Ail 
oni ie! avid ert Ee 
oS 
6 iets ped ny SOS Gee 
Phcdae Yoh BiG the 7 Bh 
; HKD fer tivaleh fe 
ALN tee dandy 
Lindt Rea ceborbln tele 


iat 
aaa 


Paitin 


het 
hap 


Sather” Bl 
Pemeti Avis 
? CVOSG baba Gs v4 
oary ij te 
” ¢ $i Prlag ae 4 
4 ite hak OEE teeta ri Bios fey : 
of it ‘phe WO Fb Le. +s 
vat ; AL egy A 


6 
if pits ; 
BUM ee Vela ace MIN ee a re 
Lah pet fo perth 4 . : rate af is ie tte aye 


= #, 


tpt NO 
Wie ot bak 


i Ai 
P i . * * 4 M te M a 
?f 7 Rag ee La fle “ ups ace i +e <thy 


