vanced. The  effect  of  these  threats  was  to  awaken 
apprehension  in  the  public  mind,  but  they  came  to  little, 
owing  to  the  vast  influx  of  labor,  both  skilled  and  man- 
ual, drawn  by  the  emergency  from  all  quarters  of  Amer- 
ica as  well  as  from  Europe. 

HIGH  PRICE  OF  BUILDING  MATERIAL. — Brick  and 
lumber  bounded  upward.  A  maximum  price  for  the 
latter  commodity  was  fixed,  by  common  accord  of  the 
dealers,  at  a  reasonably  low  figure.  The  lumbermen's 
example,  however,  was  not  followed  by  the  brickmen, 
whether  through  indisposition  or  inability  does  not 
appear.  The  prices  of  building  material  during  the 
winter  ruled  high,  yet  fell  somewhat  before  spring 
opened.  An  attempt  was  made  to  secure  legislation 
from  Congress  looking  to  the  relief  of  the  Chicago  suf- 
ferers. That  body  was  asked  to  enact  a  law,  authorizing 
the  refunding  of  all  duties  paid  on  imported  building 
material  used  in  re-building  the  burned  district  within  a 
specified  time.  A  precedent  had  been  afforded  in  the 
case  of  the  re-building  of  Portland,  Maine,  in  1866. 
When  the  measure  was  first  proposed,  it  encountered  no 
serious  objection  ;  but  before  the  bill  was  taken  up  for 
action,  the  enthusiasm  of  sympathy  had  cooled,  and  an 
opposition,  headed  by  the  lumber  interest,  had  been 
formed.  A  long  and  bitter  fight  over  the  passage  of 
the  bill  ensued,  resulting  in  its  enactment,  with  the  re- 
bate clause  relating  to  lumber  stricken  out.  Chicago 
derived  but  little  benefit  from  its  enactment,  owing  to 
the  dilatoriness  of  the  Treasury  Department  in  adopting 
rules  to  give  it  efficacy.  Many  difficulties  were  inter- 
posed, and  not  a  little  bitter  feeling  toward  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  was  engendered  by  what  was  believed 
to  indicate  a  disposition  on  his  part  to  defeat  the  object 
of  the  Act. 

BUILDING  COMMENCED. — Temporary  buildings  for 
business  purposes  sprang  up  at  once  in  every  portion  of 
the  burned  district ;  while  at  the  same  time  shanties 
were  being  put  up  with  equal  celerity  in  the  North  Di- 
vision. Many  of  these  were  the  outgrowth  of  the  work 
of  relief,  which  largely  assumed  the  form  of  aid  extended 
to  poor  men  toward  putting  up  some  shelter  for  their 
families.  It  should  be  noted  here,  that  in  the  state- 
ments made  regarding  the  number  of  buildings  erected 
in  the  city  during  the  first  year  following  the  conflagra- 
tion, no. account  has  been  presented  of  these  temporary 
shanties,  which  were  put  up  without  permits  from  the 
Board  of  Public  Works.  Neither  has  account  been 
taken  of  the  innumerable  cottages  built  on  the  North 
Side  between  the  North  Branch  and  Clark  Street,  most 
of  which  were  built  either  before  the  establishment  of 
the  fire  limits,  or  in  open  defiance  of  the  ordinance 
which  fixed  them. 

An  idea  of  the  rapidity  with  which  permanent  build- 
ings were  commenced  and  completed  may  be  formed 
from  the  fact  that,  within  six  weeks  after  the  fire,  two 
hundred  and  twelve  permanent  stone  and  brick  build- 
ings were  in  course  of  erection  in  the  South  Division 
alone,  their  total  street  frontage  extending  17,715  feet, 
or  three  and  one-half  miles.  Before  December  i,  two 
hundred  and  fifty  building  permits  had  been  issued  by 
the  Board  of  Public  Works,  and  between  December  i, 
1871,  and  October  i,  1872,  the  number  of  permits  issued 
was  twelve  hundred  and  fifty,  classified  as  follows : 

As  to  material  : 

Frame  (exclusive  of  temporary  structures). 65 

Brick 965 

Iron.. 20 

Stone__ _ 200 

As  to  height : 

One  story 284 

Two  story 378 


6o 


HISTORY   OF   CHICAGO. 


88 
10 

I 


Threestory.-- 22& 

Four  story 

l-'ivi'  story 

Six  story. - - --• 

N'ven  story 

The  total  frontage  of  these  buildings  was  43.413 
feet, — over  eight  miles.  This  aggregate  includes,  in 
the  case  of  comer  buildings,  only  the  frontage  on  the 
main  street.  The  reason  for  the  large  preponderance 
of  brick  buildings  is  to  be  found  in  the  difficulty  in  ob- 
taining stone,  consequent  upon  the  delay  in  quarrying 
and  cutting. 

Below  is  given  the  grand  totals  of  the  first  year's 
work.  It  will  be  seen  that  Clark  and  State  streets  lead 
in  the  amount  of  frontage  re-built;  the  River,  Dearborn 
and  Madison  streets  in  the  proportion  of  frontage  re-built 
to  the  territory  burned  over;  and  Randolph  and  Monroe 
streets  in  the  value  of  buildings  erected. 

SOUTH  DIVISION. 


Vune  of  Street. 

Total  front- 
age covered. 

Total  front- 
age vacant. 

ToUlCost. 

South  Water                     

3,439 

2,270 

$1,974,000 

Lake                    

3,429 

2,227 

3,871,000 

2,435 

3,296 

6,377,000 

3.036 

2,580 

4,795,000 

3,757 

1,980 

3,626,000 

2,351 

3,162 

5,138,000 

1,510 

4,lr7 

1,231,300 

1,500 

3,960 

2,792,000 

1,461 

3,850 

1,475,000 

1,393 

652 

158,000 

414 

1,726 

100,000 

1,731 

2,331 

580,000 

River                            --- 

887 

247 

506,000 

3,747 

3,335 

1,554,000 

State               

4,455 

2,952 

2,294,000 

3,660 

649 

935,000 

Clark                            

4,560 

2,495 

1,851,000 

695 

565 

6,000 

I  a'ville                 

2,744 

2,492 

743,000 

2,780 

7,418 

622,100 

2,364 

3,951 

317,300 

Market              --    

1.544 

1,897 

189,000 

Totals.  .  . 

52,792 

58,252 

$38,134,700 

NORTH  AMI  WF.ST  DIVISIONS. 

Total    frontage   of    prominent    buildings 

erected  in  the  North  Division 7, 691  feet 

Total  cost  of  all  kinds  of  buildings  erected 

in  the  North  Division. $6,425,000 

Total    frontage   of    prominent    buildings 

erected  in  the  West  Division. 891  feet 

Total  cost  of  all  kinds  of  buildings  erected 

in  the  West  Division 998,500 

Total  cost  of  buildings  erected  in  the  whole  burned 

district $45,558,200 

On  November  23,  1871,  the  fire  limits  were  fixed,  by 
ordinance  of  the  Common  Council;  within  the  bound- 
aries established,  wooden  buildings  were  absolutely  pro- 
hibited, and  elaborate  details  were  given  for  the  interior 
construction  of  large  buildings,  with  a  view  to  safety. 
A  negligence,  almost  criminal,  however,  characterized 
the  conduct  of  the  municipal  authorities,  respecting  the 
interior  of  "  fire-proof  "  buildings.  It  was  not  uncom- 
mon to  see  a  building,  supposed  to  be  of  this  class,  sur- 
mounted by  a  Mansard  roof,  as  inflammable  as  a  pile  of 
kindling-wood.  On  the  whole,  however,  the  business 
portion  of  the  city  was  re-built  in  a  manner  which  ren- 
dered it  as  secure  against  lire  as  that  of  any  American 
city. 

Some  remarks  may  be    here  made  respecting  the 


character  of  the  material  employed  in  the  first  re-build- 
ing Much  of  the  brick  used  can  hardly  be  said  to 
have  been  unexceptionable,  owing  to  a  superabundance 
of  lime  in  its  composition.  Of  course,  the  Philadelphia 
brick  was  not  open  to  this  criticism,  but  its  cost  was  too 
high  to  admit  of  its  coming  into  general  use.  Iron 
fronts  were  unpopular  after  the  fire,  in  a  community 
which  had  seen  them  warp  and  twist,  although  pillars  of 
this  material,  running  up  one  story, were  common  enough. 
Little  granite  was  used.  Limestone  and  sandstone 
were  favorite  materials.  At  an  early  stage  of  the 
city's  restoration,  no  small  prejudice  was  felt  against  the 
former,  because  of  its  crumbling  during  the  conflagra- 
tion. The  truth  is,  however,  that  no  description  of  ma- 
terial could  endure  a  heat  sufficient  to  fuse  metals  in- 
fusible at  a  lower  temperature  than  3,000  degrees. 
The  term  "  fire-proof,"  like  all  other  terms  of  descrip- 
tion, is  relative  in  its  application  ;  any  of  the  three  vari- 
eties of  stone  named  would  pass  safely  through  an 
ordinary  fire  ;  no  stone  yet  quarried  could  withstand 
the  intolerable  heat  of  a  city  in  flames.  Of  all  the  build- 
ings exposed  to  the  fire,  those  which  suffered  least  were 
the  Custom  House,  the  Court  House,  the  Nixon  and 
First  National  Bank  buildings— all  limestone  structures. 
Seven  quarries  were  taxed  to  the  utmost  in  furnishing 
stone  to  Chicago  during  the  year  following  the  fire.  Of 
these,  three  were  in  Ohio,  all  sandstone ;  one  in  Michi- 
gan, also  sandstone  ;  and  three  in  Illinois,  one  of  which 
was  sandstone  and  the  other  two  limestone.  The  price 
per  foot  ranged  from  sixty-five  cents  to  $1.10  ;  the  color 
varied  between  white,  gray,  blueish-brown,  reddish- 
brown  and  cream. 

A  departure  from  ordinarily  accepted  architectural 
principles  was  inaugurated  by  Messrs.  J.  V.  Farwell  & 
Co.,  who  constructed  the  walls  of  their  store  from 
cement.  The  walls  were  erected  between  frames  of 
lumber.  The  interstices  were  filled  with  fragments  of 
brick,  broken  stone,  etc.,  and  the  cement — in  a  liquid 
state — poured  into  the  frame.  As  it  cooled,  it  formed 
a  solid  and  substantial  wall,  assuming  the  ornamental 
forms  carved  in  the  planks  forming  the  frame. 

The  first  step  taken  toward  permanent  reconstruc- 
tion was  the  re-building  of  the  bridges  and  viaducts,  the 
money  for  which  work  was  received  from  the  State. 
Eleven  days  after  the  fire,  the  Legislature,  with  a  view 
to  relieving  Chicago's  distress,  appropriated  $2,955,340, 
with  interest  until  paid,  to  refund  the  amount  expended 
in  canal  improvement.  In  order  legally  to  justify  such 
appropriation,  the  State  assumed  complete  control  of 
the  canal,  by  virtue  of  reserved  power.  The  Act  appro- 
priating this  sum,  provided  that  not  less  than  one-fifth 
nor  more  than  one-third  of  the  entire  sum  should  be 
applied  by  the  municipality  to  the  re-building  of  bridges 
and  other  structures  of  a  public  character,  while  the  re- 
mainder should  be  devoted  to  the  payment  of  interest 
on  the  city's  bonded  debt,  and  the  maintenance  of  the 
police  and  fire  departments.  Great  as  was  the  direct 
benefit  resulting  from  this  action  of  the  Legislature,  the 
indirect  advantages  resulting  therefrom,  in  nerving  and 
stimulating  the  general  public,  were  even  greater.  Re- 
pairs were  at  once  undertaken  on  the  eight  bridges  and 
three  viaducts  which  the  flames  had  rendered  impassa- 
ble, and  within  a  year  all  were  completed. 

The  viaducts  were  located  at  State,  Clark  and  Wells 
streets ;  and  the  bridges  at  Rush,  State,  Clark  and 
Wells  streets,  Chicago  Avenue,  Adams,  Van  Buren  and 
Polk  streets. 

From  October  9,  1871,  to  January  22,  1872,  the  La- 
Salle-street  tunnel  furnished  the  only  direct  means  of 
communication  between  the  North  and  South  divisions 


RE-BUILDING    OF    CHICAGO. 


61 


of  the  city  ;  fortunately  that  thoroughfare  was  but  little 
damaged. 

Twenty-eight  and  one-half  miles  of  street  pavement 
were  exposed  to  the  fire,  and  the  damage  done  them  has 
been  estimated  at  about  seventeen  per  cent,  of  their 
original  cost,  or  $211,350.  A  noteworthy  circumstance 
in  tliis  connection  is  that  the  wooden  blocks  of  Nichol- 
son pavement  showed  unsuspected  fire-proof  qualities, 
second  only  to  those  of  vaults.  The  following  short 
table  shows  the  lineal  feet  of  pavement  destroyed,  with 
its  estimated  value: 

Feet.  Value. 

Wooden  sidewalks     599,537  (113  1-5   miles)  $404,991  50 

Stone  pavements.       37,122  (7             "     )  531,095  60 

Flagstone 6,122  (over  one  mile)  5,29380 

642,781  (121  1-5   miles)    $941,380  90 

During  the  year  ensuing,  pavements  were  laid  as  fol- 
lows: 

Wooden  sidewalks 366, 500  feet,  or  69  2-5  miles. 

Stone    pavements 16,840     '         '31-5 

Concrete   pavements 880     "     "        1-6      " 


Total 384,220 


"  72  23-30  " 


The  most  expensive  work  of  repair  undertaken  by 
the  city  authorities  was  the  reconstruction  of  the  Water 
Works.  The  actual  and  direct  outlay  for  repairs  was,  in 
round  numbers,  $100,000,  exclusive  of  damage  done  to 
the  North  and  South  Side  reservoirs,  which  may  be  set 
down  at  $20,000.  Other  losses  may  be  fairly  estimated 
as  follows: 

W-Uer  pipes.. $15,000 

Fire  hydrants.  _ _ 10,000 

Water   meters. 6,000 


$31,000 

In  addition,  should  be  considered,  the  increase  of 
$97,410  in  the  water  expense  of  the  city,  owing  to  the 
immense  waste  of  water  through  the  service  pipes, 
from 'which  no  revenue  was  derived.  If  all  these  items 
be  added,  the  total  cost  of  repairing  the  Water  Works 
may  be  set  down  at  $248,410.  The  work  was  done  in  a 
thorough  manner,  and  an  iron  roof  was  substituted  for 
the  old  inflammable  covering.  In  addition,  the  building 
of  a  new  lake  tunnel,  of  much  larger  capacity  than  the 
old  one,  was  at  once  commenced. 

The  direct  outlay  for  buildings  put  up  for  municipal 
purposes  was  mainly  for  the  erection  of  the  temporary 
court  house  familiarly  known  as  "the  old  Rookery  "). 

The  number  of  churches  in  Chicago  before  the  fire 
was,  in  round  numbers,  one  hundred  and  sixty-five,  of 
which  thirty-nine  were  burned,  the  loss  being  estimated 
at  between  two  and  a  half  and  three  millions  of  dollars. 
Those  on  the  North  Side  were,  as  a  rule,  re-built  on  their 
former  sites.  On  the  South  Side,  the  general  tendency 
was  to  move  farther  south.  Two  magnificent  churches 
in  the  latter  division  that  were  unharmed— the  Methodist 
Church,  on  the  corner  of  Wabash  Avenue  and  Harrison 
Street,  and  the  Church  of  the  Messiah  (Unitarian),  of 
which  Rev.  Robert  Laird  Collier  was  pastor— passed  in- 
to secular  service.  The  former  was,  subsequent  to  the 
fire,  rented  by  the  General  Government  to  be  used  as  a 
post  office.  The  Church  of  the  Messiah  was  used  after 
the  fire  for  mercantile  purposes. 

In  the  progress  of  the  city's  re-building,  the  busi- 
ness area  was  largely  increased,  in  the  permanent 
location  of  merchants,  a  new  departure  was  made  in 
the  grouping  of  houses  engaged  in  certain  lines  of 
trade  around  common  centers.  The  wholesale  dry- 
^  goods  interest  selected  as  a  territory  the  locality  around 


the  intersection  of  Market  with  Monroe  and  Madison 
streets,  their  choice  being,  no  doubt,  influenced  by  the 
erection  of  J.  V.  Farwell  and  Company's  building,  and 
the  removal  of  the  wholesale  department  of  Field  & 
Leiter  to  the  corner  last  named. 

In  the  West  Division,— near  the  locality  where  the 
fire  originated, — Canal  Street,  for  more  than  a  mile, 
had  been  abandoned  to  rookeries  of  the  most  miserable 
description.  These  were  re-placed  by  manufactories 
and  business  houses  of  a  generally  heavy  character. 
The  selection  of  locality  proved  to  be  a  wise  one,  and, 
during  the  ensuing  fifteen  years,  the  number  of  factories 
has  steadily  increased.  On  the  South  Side,  the  busi- 
ness area  was  enlarged  fully  one-third. 

As  a  rule  the  owners  of  buildings  noted  for  magnifi- 
cence and  beauty  before  the  fire  sought  to  replace  them 
by  edifices  constructed  on  a  larger  and  grander  scale. 
l.aSalle  Street  had  been  famed  for  its  magnificent  office- 
buildings,  and  after  the  conflagration  croaking  prophets 
were  not  wanting  who  declared  that  Chicago  would  not 
"  look  upon  its  like  again  ";  but  the  same  thoroughfare, 
re-built,  far  surpassed  the  old  in  grandeur.  The  new 
Chamber  of  Commerce  was  a  finer  structure,  in  every 
respect,  than  was  the  old,  and  the  buildings  erected  for 
the  conduct  of  banking  and  insurance  business  propor- 
tionately excelled  their  predecessors.  The  improve- 
ment in  hotel  buildings  was  much  greater  in  extent. 
Even  at  the  Stock  Yards  was  built  a  hostelry  which,  in 
point  of  capacity,  surpassed  the  old  Sherman  and  Tre- 
mont  houses.  The  demand  for  hotel  accommodation, 
however,  increased  in  a  ratio  even  greater  than  that 
of  the  city's  population.  It  may  be  doubted  whether 
any  city  in  the  country  (certainly  no  inland  city)  daily 
harbors  so  large  a  transient  population  as  Chicago. 

Having  briefly  outlined  the  material  re-building  of 
the  city,  it  remains  to  note  the  resumption  of  business ; 
and,  in  this  connection,  it  may  be  remarked  that  the 
same  obstacles  which  militated  against  the  actual  re- 
building of  the  city  encountered  our  merchants  in  their 
efforts  to  restore  Chicago  to  her  former  position  as  a 
commercial  center. 

Those  who  could  not  find  locations  which  they  were 
willing  to  occupy,  had  to  accept  the  inevitable  of 
"  shanty  "  life,  and  old  Argonauts  of  '49,  who  viewed 
the  city's  first  effort  at  revivification,  said  that  Chicago 
presented  a  resemblance  to  a  mining  town  ;  but  the 
broken  bricks,  the  curiously-twisted  iron  beams,  and  the 
scorched,  split  trees  were  adjuncts  to  the  Chicago 
"shanties  "  which  were  wanting  in  the  camps  of  the 
frontier. 

The  first  business  structure  erected  on  the  ruins  of 
former  greatness  was  that  put  up  by  W.  D.  Kerfoot,  the 
well  known  real-estate  agent  and  operator.  He  lost  all 
his  worldly  possessions  of  a  pecuniary  sort  on  October  9. 
On  the  morning  of  October  10,  he  repaired  to  the  local- 
ity where  he  had  formerly  conducted  business,  on  AVash- 
ington,  between  Dearborn  and  Clark  streets,  and  with 
the  assistance  of  his  clerk  and  his  clerk's  father,  had,  be- 
fore noon,  erected  a  twelve  by  sixteen  shanty  of  boards, 
and  was  ready  to  resume  business  Surmounting  the 
structure  was  a  board  bearing  the  words,  "  Kerfoot 's 
Block,"  and  on  the  building  a  sign,  "  W.  D.  Kerfoot. 
Everything  gone  but  wife,  children,  and  energy."  The 
ruined  walls  around  were  too  hot  to  permit  the  building 
of  the  shanty  within  the  line  of  the  sidewalk,  and  it  was 
put  up  a  few  feet  from  the  pavement,  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  street.  Here  it  stood  until  October  19, 
when,  the  ruins  around  having  sufficiently  cooled,  the 
Board  of  Public  Works  required  Mr.  Kerfoot  to  move 
his  "  business  block  "  back,  within  the  street  line.  He 


62 


HISTORY    OF    CHICAGO. 


FIU>T    BUILDING    ERECTED    AFTKR    THE    FIRE. 


continued  to  do  business  here  until  the  following  June, 
when  he  removed  to  permanent  quarters.  The  enter- 
prise and  pluck  displayed  in  the  erection  of  the  board 
office  did  not  a  little  toward  reviving  courage  and  droop- 
ing spirits.  The  comical  features  of  the  situation  ap- 
pealed to  the  humorous  sense  of  the  passers-by,  and 
their  attention  was  for  a  time  diverted  from  their  own 
losses  and  misfortunes.  The  office  soon  became  a  "half- 
way house  "  between  the  South  and  West  Divisions,  and 
a  sort  of  general  headquarters.  In  front  of  the  building 
was  placed  a  long  board,  covered  with  notices  of  re- 
movals, etc. — a  sort  of  extemporized  city  directory — and 
this  circumstance,  added  to  the  general  character  of  the 
place,  made  Mr.  Kerfoot's  office  a  general  "Bureau  of 
Information."  Hackmen,  seeking  to  learn  the  address  of 
the  person  at  whose  residence  or  place  of  business  they 
should  leave  a  passenger,  drove  by  the  building  to  get 
information  which  might  be  more  easily  obtained  there 
than  elsewhere. 

I'liisiness  was  resumed  within  twenty  days  after  the 
fire.  A  temporary  habitation  was  afforded  to  many 
merchants  along  the  Lake  Front.  Under  the  existing 
laws,  the  Lake  Front  could  be  used  for  no  other  than 
park  purposes.  The  Hoard  of  Public  Works,  however, 
deemed  itself  justified  by  the  exigency  in  converting  this 
ground,  temporarily,  to  business  purposes,  and  accord- 
ingly executed  ground-leases  to  merchants  for  one  year, 
with  a  proviso  that  at  the  expiration  of  that  period  the 
buildings  should  lie  removed  ;  the  annual  rental  being 
fixed  at  $500  for  every  twenty-five  feet  of  frontage  As 
a  result  of  the  adoption  of  this  policy,  a  long  row  of 
business  houses  mainly  wholesale,  reared  their  pine 
fronts  along  Michigan  avenue.  From  Park  Row  on  the 
south  to  Randolph  Street  on  the  north,  a  distance  of  one 
mile,  nearly  the  entire  east  frontage  was  lined  with  rude 
structures,  mostly  one  story,  all  frame,  and  frequently  of 

d  depth. 

Another  consideration  which  preyed  upon  the  minds 


of  business  men  during  those  days  was,  Even  if  loca- 
tions could  be  obtained,  whence  were  to  come  the  goods  ? 
The  answer  arrived  in  the  form  of  hundreds  of  tele- 
grams from  Eastern  creditors  to  the  leading  merchants 
of  the  city  ;  telegrams  received  in  the  first  dark  hours 
of  distress  and  doubt,  before  the  extent  to  which  the 
calamity  might  affect  them  was  fully  known.  These 
telegrams  assumed  that  the  sufferers  would  commence 
anew,  and  attested  the  senders'  faith  in  their  ability 
and  probity.  The  general  tenor  of  the  dispatches  was  : 
"  We  suppose  you  are  burned  out ;  order  what  goods  you 
need,  and  pay  when  you  can  ;  we  want  your  trade."  No 
doubt  an  element  of  business  sagacity  was  discernible  in 
such  messages,  but  their  effect  was  to  re-assure  and  re- 
animate those  who  might  have  been  pardoned  for  giving 
way  to  despondency. 

ARCHITECTURE. 

It  has  been  said — not  without  reason — by  a  writer 
of  a  period  some  three  years  subsequent  to  the  great 
fire,  that  that  catastrophe  constituted  an  episode  rather 
than  a  crisis  in  the  city's  history.  If  tangible  evidence 
in  support  of  this  assertion  were  needed,  it  would  be 
possible  to  furnish  it,  in  statistical  form,  by  reference  to 
the  figures  which  record  the  astounding  progress  made 
in  re-building  the  burned  district  within  the  year  follow- 
ing the  fire.  As  has  been  already  said,  of  the  entire 
frontage  of  buildings  destroyed  in  the  South  Division, 
the  first  year's  work  showed  52,792  feet  re-built  and 
58,252  feet  vacant ;  in  the  North  Division,  the  frontage 
re-built  was  7,691  feet;  and  in  the  West  Division,  891 
feet ;  the  aggregate  frontage  re-built  in  the  three  divis- 
ions being  61,374  feet.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that 
this  statement  applies  only  to  permanent  buildings, 
which  were  chiefly  of  brick  or  stone. 

The  general  character  of  these  structures  was  credit- 
able. Many  of  them  comprised  solid  walls,  of  great 


RE -BUILDING    OF    CHICAGO. 


width,  resting  upon  stable  and  broad  foundations. 
Some  resembled  fortresses  more  closely  than  commer- 
cial structures;  their  vaults  incased  in  several  feet  of 
masonry — and  covered  with  railroad  iron — and  com- 
posed, from  foundation  to  turret,  of  material  which  had 
already  absorbed  all  the  oxygen  it  could  contain,  cen- 
turies before  it  entered  into  the  composition  of  Chicago 
walls.  It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that  in  the 
erection  of  not  a  few  buildings  the  dominating  consid- 
erations were  haste  and  expediency.  The  business 
interests  of  the  city  demanded  more  roomy  and  better 
arranged  quarters  than  were  afforded  by  the  temporary 
shanties  in  which  merchants  first  found  a  local  habitation. 

Architects  found  their  resources  taxed  to  the  utmost 
to  prepare  plans,  and  in  many  cases,  so  eager  was  the 
desire  to  build,  the  interval  of  time  between  the  matur- 
ing and  the  execution  of  the  plans  was  inappreciable. 
A  noticeable  illustration  is  furnished  by  the  Grand 
Pacific  Hotel,  the  re-building  of  which  was  commenced 
even  before  the  plans  had  been  completed.  To  this 
spirit  of  eagerness  (not,  perhaps,  unmixed  with  that 
of  emulation)  may  be  attributed  the  erection  of  many 
structures,  even  in  the  business  center  of  the  city,  of 
a  character — architecturally  speaking — which  were  dis- 
creditable alike  to  the  owners  who  erected  them  and 
the  municipal  authorities  who  tolerated  them.  Some  of 
them  still  remain — illustrations  of  the  short-sighted 
policy  which  was  responsible  for  their  construction. 

Stories  are  current  to  the  effect  that  minor  details 
of  plans  were  not  infrequently  conceived  by  builders 
destitute  of  scientific  knowledge  or  skill,  who  submitted 
them  to  the  architects  in  charge  of  work,  to  receive 
an  approval  scarcely  justified  even  by  the  necessities  of 
the  emergency,  which,  however,  allowed  little  time  for 
examination,  study  or  improvement.  For  this  reason, 
the  architecture  of  the  city,  during  the 
twelve  months  immediately  succeeding  the 
fire,  showed  little  substantial  advance  over 
that  of  ante-fire  days,  except  as  regards  the 
material  used  and  the  thickness  of  the  walls. 
After  the  subsidence  of  the  strong — though 
temporary — pressure  brought  to  bear  upon 
the  architects,  during  the  first  year  following 
the  conflagration,  they  were  able  to  devote 
more  time  and  attention  to  their  work,  the 
substantial  proofs  of  which  may  be  seen  in 
the  massive  and  beautiful  structures  which 
now  adorn  our  public  thoroughfares. 

Among  the  more  noteworthy  buildings 
erected  during  this  era  may  be  named 

The  Chamber  of  Commerce  (completed 
before,  and  occupied  on,  the  first  anni- 
versary of  the  fire),  the  cost  of  which 
was,  in  round  numbers $365,00x3 

The  Sherman  House,  cost 650^000 

The  Passenger  Depot  of  Lake  Shore  & 
Michigan  Southern  and  Chicago  &  Rock 
Island  Railways,  cost 750,000 

The  Grand  Pacific  Hotel,  cost 1,000,000 

The  Palmer  House,  cost  (over) 1,500,000 

In  addition  to  these,  some  seventy-three 
others,    the    average    cost    of    which    was 
$100,000    each,    were    commenced    during 
the  first  year  after  the  fire,  although  not  all  were  com- 
pleted before  the  expiration  of  that  period. 

The  building  activity  which  characterized  the  year 
1872,  continued  throughout  1873.  The  prices  of  build- 
ing materials  and  labor  were  high,  but  capitalists, 
recognizing  the  desirable  opportunity  offered  for  invest- 
ment, did  not  hesitate  to  advance  means  for  the  prose- 
cution of  the  work.  During  that  year  was  commenced 


the  reconstruction  of  the  public  buildings,  the  Post 
Office  and  Custom  House  and  the  Criminal  Court-house 
and  County  Jail  (the  two  structures  last  pamed  being 
connected).  Among  the  most  prominent  edifices  com- 
pleted during  that  year  were  the  following,  all  erected 
within  the  district  lying  between  Michigan  Avenue  and 
Franklin  Street,  on  the  east  and  west,  and  Lake  and 
Adams  streets,  on  the  north  and  south  :  The  Reaper 
Block  ;  the  Lakeside  Building  (a  notable  example  of 
the  Gothic  revival) ;  the  Times  Building  (one  of  the 
most  complete  structures  of  its  class  yet  erected  on  the 
continent) ;  the  Matteson  House  ;  the  Busby  and  Stu- 
art Building  (occupying  the  site  of  the  old  Crosby 
Opera-house);  the  St.  James  Hotel;  and  the  'Fremont 
House,  the  latter  a  building  of  highly  ornate  architect- 
ural character,  whose  cost  was  $500,000. 

The  comparatively  narrow  limits  included  within  the 
boundaries  above  named — within  which  were  concen- 
trated the  leading  commercial  houses,  both  jobbing  and 
retail — soon  proved  too  contracted.  A  demand  for 
more  business  accommodation  soon  sprang  up  and 
steadily  increased;  yet  the  majority  of  tenants  sought 
quarters  in  the  district  mentioned.  As  a  result  of  this 
demand  arose  the  towering  structures  which  began  to 
be  erected  toward  the  close  of  1880. 

The  history  of  architecture  in  Chicago  since  the  fire 
affords  a  striking  contrast  to  that  of  the  period  antece- 
dent to  the  conflagration;  the  latter  is  commonly  recog- 
nized by  the  architects  of  the  city  as  a  new  era.  The 
flames  had  taught  citizens  the  folly  of  employing  wood 
as  a  building  material,  and  brick  and  stone  were  sub- 
stituted in  the  city's  rehabilitation,  while  much  attention 
was  paid  to  the  interior  arrangement,  the  object  being 
to  render  the  "  new  Chicago "  as  nearly  fire-proof  as 
possible.  Of  the  results  of  careful  thought  which  had 


FIRST    BRICK.    STRUCTURE    MADE    AFTER    THE    FIRE. 


been  devoted  to  this  subject,  tangible  illustrations  were 
afforded  by  the  Tribune  and  the  Times  buildings,  the 
Singer  Sewing  Machine  Company's  building,  and  a  score 
of  others. 

Not  for  many  years,  however,  did  any  proposed  so- 
lution of  the  question,  "  What  constitutes  a  fire-proof 
building  ?  "  find  general  acceptance.  In  this  respect,  as 
in  many  others,  the  year  1880  signalized  a  decided  ad- 


HISTORY    (>K   CHICAGO. 


vance  in  application  of  the  principles  of  true  scien- 
tific architecture  to  practical  building.  George  II. 
Johnson  may  be  said  to  have  been  the  originator  of  the 
present  fire-proof  system  of  Chicago.  Before  the  fire 
his  plans  were  followed  in  the  construction  of  many 
buildings.  Among  these  may  be  named  the  old  First 
National  Hank,  the  Republic  Fire  In- 
surance Company's  Building,  and  the 
Nixon  Building.  The  fact  that  the 


PETER  SCHUTTLER  S  RESIDENCE  ;    ADAMS  AND  AJ1KKDKEN   STS. 

walls  of  these  edifices  remained  standing,  comparatively 
unharmed,  aided  in  the  popularization  of  his  theories 
among  a  people  who  had  begun  to  distrust  all  schemes 
for  the  erection  of  buildings  alleged  to  be  fire-proof. 

The  prevailing  styles  of  architecture  in  vogue  in  the 
city's  re-building,  were  the  Italian  Renaissance,  and  the 
advanced,  or  modern,  Gothic.  The  influence  of  the 
former  was  noticeable  in  the  very  first  structure  under- 
taken after  the  fire,  and  dominated  the  architectural 
plans  adopted  during  the  next  two  years.  Most  of  the 
prominent  buildings  erected  during  1872  and  1873,  be- 
longed to  this  school,  or  embraced,  in  their  design, 
modifications  of  its  principles. 

With  the  re-building  of  the  residence  portion  of  the 
burned  district,  became  apparent  a  marked  tendency  to 
imitate  the  boulevard  system  of  Paris,  indicated  in  the 
erection  of  blocks  of  closely  contiguous  buildings,  of 
the  same  general  style  and  similar  arrangements.  In- 
stances of  that  departure  may  be  recalled  by  residents 
of  both  the  North  and  South  divisions  of  the  city.  As 
a  characteristic  of  the  architecture  of  this  period  (par- 
ticularly with  relation  to  private  residences}  may  be  men- 
tioned dill'iise  ornamentation,  which,  in  a  number  of 
instances,  degenerated  into  vulgar — if  not  gaudy dis- 
play. So  general  did  the  morbid  fondness  for  this  par- 
ticular species  of  adornment  become,  that  there  came 
to  be  recognized,  among  both  builders  and  the  general 
public,  a  definite  "school  "of  architecture,  familiarly 
known  as  ••Chicago  style."  Among  the  buildings  which 
miy'in  lie  named  as  marked  exceptions  to  what  may  be 
said  to  have  been  almost  a  rule,  was  the  Palmer  House. 


The  plans  for  this  building  were,  to  a  considerable  ex- 
tent, conceived,  if  not  completed,  abroad.     Mr.  PaJmer, 
with  a  view  to  its  erection,  visited  the  chief  cities  of 
Europe,  in  company  with  one  of  the  leading  architects 
of  this  city.     The  general  style  of  the  building,  both 
in  its  exterior  effect  and  its  more  important  features  of 
interior  arrangement,  is  largely  the  embodiment 
of  modern  French  ideas,  particularly  in  the  en- 
tresol, which  is  strikingly  Parisian  in  appearance. 
Architects,    builders    and    property    owners 
comparatively  soon  wearied  of  the  Italian  school. 
The  first  transition  was  to  the  style  technically 
known  as  the  modern  Gothic.      The  movement 
for  the  revival  of  this  school  embraced  both  ex- 
terior and  interior  effects.    Its  influence  was  soon 
felt,  and    its    results  plainly  apparent    upon  the 
architecture  of  the  time.     Isolated  instances  of 
the   tendency  multiplied  in  the  incorporation  of 
some  of  the  principles  of  this  school  in  the  de- 
sign of  many  buildings,  the  general  effect  being 
that  of  an  amalgamation  of   diverse  or  contra- 
dictory   principles,    until    its    culmination    was 
embodied  in  the  American  Express  Building,  on 
Monroe  Street,  the  erection  of  which   was  fol- 
lowed by  that  of  the  Pike  Block,  adjoining  the 
latter,    and    completed     almost     immediately 
afterward.      The   popular   approval    bestowed 
on  these  edifices  created  a  marked  change  in 
both  architectural  thought  and  popular  taste, 
and  the  way  was  paved  for  further  innovations, 
which  made  a  new  era  in  architecture.     The 
interest  which   began  to  be  felt  in  this  subject 
may  be  attributed    to  the  education   and    im- 
provement  in  taste,  resultant  upon  the  careful 
study    and  cultivated  art  of  the  architects  of 
Chicago. 

To  recur  to  the  more  material  aspects  of 
the  situation.  The  concentration  of  a  vast 
and  constantly  growing  trade  in  so  small  a 
compass, — and  notably  the  growth  of  Chicago  to  its 
pre-eminence  as  a  grain  mart;  the  large  number  of 
real  estate  dealers  and  of  professional  men  of  all 
classes,  requiring  offices  contiguous  to  the  prin- 
cipal public  buildings  and  to  each  other,  —  created 
a  demand  for  business  blocks  of  a  capacity  greater 
than  had  been  theretofore  known.  This  demand  was 
met  by  Chicago  architects  with  a  readiness,  and  in 
a  manner,  which  has  resulted  in  the  erection,  in  this  city, 
of  a  series  of  imposing  office  structures,  equaled  in  few 
cities  of  the  world.  During  the  period  immediately  fol- 
lowing the  panic  of  1873,  there  was,  comparatively,  a  ces- 
sation of  building,  nor  was  it  actively  resumed  until  1880. 
The  first  buildings  to  rise  after  the  recovery  from  this 
partial  prostration  were  the  Grannis  and  the  Borden 
blocks,  and  these  were  soon  followed  by  scores  of  others. 
In  the  erection  of  these  structures  the  old  methods  were 
discarded;  that  is  to  say,  that  highly  ornate  buildings— 
thinly  veneered  with  stone — were  supplanted  by  simpler, 
yet  more  stately  and  more  honest,  designs,  in  brick; 
which  material  thereupon  became,  and  has  since  con- 
tinued, the  favorite  for  all  buildings  designed  for  busi- 
ness uses. 

The  year  following  witnessed  the  erection  of  the 
general  offices  of  the  Chicago,  Burlington  &  Quincy 
Railway  Company,  the  First  National  Bank  and  the 
Montauk  Block.  During  the  next  two  years  rose  the 
Calumet  Building,  the  Pullman  Building  (constructed 
after  plans  drawn  by  S.  S.  Beman,  of  which  the  origi- 
nality of  design  and  beauty  of  construction  have  made 
it  famous),  the  Mailer's,  Gaff,  Insurance  Exchange,  the 


RE -BUILDING    OF   CHICAGO. 


Royal  Insurance  (Quincy  Street),  the  Home  Insurance 
(one  of  the  city's  "  lions  ")  and  Traders'  buildings.  All 
these  followed  the  same  general  plan  of  architecture. 
A  simplicity  of  design,  almost  severe,  was  united  with 
great  solidity  of  construction,  and  the  admission  of  light 
and  air  formed  a  prominent  feature  in  the  drafting  of 
the  plans,  and  an  efficient  elevator  service,  as  safe  as 
scientific  skill  could  render  it,  was  provided  in  all. 

A  noticeable  feature  in  the  construction  of  all  the 
buildings,  above  named,  is  the  sacrifice  of  space  to  light. 
For  instance:  In  the  general  office-building  of  the  Chi- 
cago, Burlington  &  Quincy  Railway  Company  is  an 
inclosed  court,  sixty  feet  square,  surrounded  by  galleries 
on  which  the  various  offices  are  situated;  the  same  plan, 
in  its  salient  features,  was  adopted  in  the  erection  of  the 
First  National  Bank  Building.  Care  has  been  taken  in 
the  erection  of  all,  that  no  exposed  surface  shall  be  un- 
protected by  a  thick  covering  of  fire-clay.  The  great 
fire  conclusively  demonstrated  the  fallacy  of  the  theory 
that  iron  was  afire-proof  material.  Its  value,  as  regards 
compactness  and  strength  is  still  conceded,  and  it  is  com- 
monly used  as  a  material  for  columns,  floor-beams  and 
girders,  but  always  inclosed,  as  already  said,  in  a  coat- 
ing of  fire-clay  (previously  moulded  in  roller  forms), 
never  less  than  two  inches  in  thickness,  over  which  is 
applied  the  finished  plaster,  or  cement.  That  the  new 
theory  is  an  advance  over  the  old  is  self-evident;  that 
its  application  results  in  a  construction  absolutely  fire- 
proof can  not  be  asserted  in  view  of  the  burning  of  the 
interior  of  Grannis  Block  in  the  winter  of  1885. 

The  same  general  principles  of  construction  were 
followed  in  the  erection  of  the  Rialto,  Phoenix  and 
Monadnock  buildings,  which  also  present  a  general  simi- 


larity in  mailers  of  detail.  The  style  of  architecture 
adopted  in  the  exteriors  nearly  follows  that  known  as 
the  Romanesque  or  Round-arch  Gothic,  the  first  note- 
worthy departure  from  the  principles  of  'the  modern 
Gothic  school,  which  had,  for  some  years,  ruled  su- 
preme. Many,  if  not  most,  of  the  city's  leading  archi- 
tects believe  that  this  change  will  be  measurably  per- 
manent, or,  in  other  words,  that  the  style  followed  in  the 
buildings  now  being  erected  will  prevail  for  many  years, 
so  far,  at  least,  as  buildings  for  commercial  purposes  are 
concerned. 

Probably  the  structure  which,  of  all  erected  in  Chi- 
cago since  1871,  may  most  safely  challenge  inspection, 
ami,  measurably,  defy  competition,  is  that  known  as 
"the  new  Board  of  Trade  Building,"  on  Jackson  Street, 
completed  in  1885.  The  removal  of  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce  to  this  locality,  at  once  prompted — even  if  it 
did  not  necessitate — the  erection  of  a  large  number  of 
office  -  buildings  in  its  immediate  vicinity,  some  of 
which  have  been  already  n*med.  Not  far  from  it,  on 
Adams  Street,  stands  the  unique  Moorish  structure,  five 
stories  in  height,  owned  and  occupied  as  a  restaurant 
almost  palatial  in  its  appointments,  by  H.  M.  Kinsley, 
the  well-known  caterer  ;  while  on  Michigan  Avenue  has 
been  built,  for  H.  V.  Bemis,  the  magnificent  Hotel 
Richelieu.  The  immense  structure  to  be  erected  by 
Marshall  Field  &  Co.,  on  the  corner  of  Adams  and  La- 
Salle  streets,  to  be  used  as  a  wholesale  warehouse,  is  to 
be  of  Long  Meadow  (Mass.)  stone,  and  will  cover  a  site 
325  by  180  feet.  The  building  will  be  eight  stories  in 
height,  and  in  its  main  features  will  conform  to  the  prev- 
alent architectural  style.  Its  (estimated)  cost  will  be 
$600,000. 


Wm 

•6  ^  -".-rfl  'jT  I    I 


.1 


PKAIKIE    AVENUE    AND    TWENTIETH    STREET. 


66 


HISTORY    OF    CHICAGO. 


The  churches  of  Chicago,  even  before  the  fire,  were 
famous  throughout  the  country,  and  the  city  vied  with 
Brooklyn  in  meriting  the  sobriquet  of  the  City  of 
Churches  The  work  of  re-building  was  not  long  de- 
layed, and  the  new  structures  surpass  the  old  in  both 


- 


MONTAUK    BLOCK. 

number  and  beauty.  In  their  building,  no  marked  de- 
viation from  the  generally  received  principles  of  eccle- 
siastical architecture  is  noticeable,  the  Norman-Gothic 
and  pure  Gothic  schools  predominating.  Among  the 
edifices  erected  that  are  deserving  of  special  mention, 
because  of  eminence  in  beauty,  both  of  interior  and  ex- 
terior, may  be  cited  the  Catholic  cathedral  of  the  Holy 
Name,  St.  James's  and  the  Epiphany  Episcopal 
churches,  the  First  and  Third  Presbyterian,  the  Ply- 
mouth and  New  England  Congregational,  the  Eirst  aiid 
Immanuel  Baptist  and  Unity  (Unitarian)  churches.  A  full 
description  of  the  re-building  of  the  various  sanctuaries 


that  were  destroyed,  and  the  erection  of  the  more  pro- 
minent new  ones  required  by  the  constantly  augmenting 
population,  will  be  found  in  the  chapter  on  Religious 
History.  Of  the  present  churches  in  the  city,  and  of 
the  spirit  which  has  prompted  their  construction,  it  may 

be  said  that  while  the 
city  can  boast  of  no  tem- 
ple comparable  to  "old 
Trinity  "or  the  Stewart 
cathedral,  in  New  York, 
it  is  only  a  question  of 
time  when  the  great 
church  buildings  of  Chi- 
cago will  rival  in  grand- 
eur and  beauty  those  of 
any  metropolitan  city  on 
the  American  continent. 
To  illustrate  the  growth 
of  this  description  o  f 
building  in  Chicago,  it 
is  only  necessary  to  refer 
to  the  accompanying  ta- 
ble, an  examination  of 
which  shows  that  since 
1878  twenty-five  church- 
es have  been  erected,  of 
which  no  less  than  four- 
teen were  built  in  1883. 
No  sketch  of  the  arch- 
itecture of  Chicago  — 
even  though  as  brief  as 
the  present  —  would  be 
complete  which  failed  to 
contain  some  mention  of 
the  great  advance  notice- 
able in  the  style  of  build- 
ing in  the  residence  por- 
tions of  the  city  since  the 
great  fire.  To  adorn  the 
homes  of  the  merchant 
princes  of  the  capital  of 
the  Northwest,  have  been 
devoted  the  best  efforts 
of  architects  of  renown 
and  decorators  of  nation- 
al reputation.  The  truth 
of  the  old  adage,  "many 
men,  many  minds,  "  has 
found  here  a  new  illus- 
tration in  a  diversity  of 
style,  resulting  in  a  vast 
variety  of  pleasing  ef- 
fects. Nor,  in  many  quar- 
ters of  the  city,  which 
may,  perhaps,  be  denom- 
inated as  most  exclusive, 
is  the  beauty  of  the  effect 
destroyed  by  the  build- 
ing of  the  houses  in  contiguous  blocks,  unrelieved  by 
any  surroundings  not  of  a  purely  artificial  character. 
Not  a  few  are  surrounded  by  grounds  which,  in  view  of 
the  city's  extent,  may  be  fairly  called  spacious  ;  and  m 
this  respect  Chicago  surpasses  every  city  of  equal  size 
in  the  United  States.  Scores  of  illustrative  examples 
might  be  mentioned,  but  neither  space  nor  any  fair 
principle  of  discrimination  will  permit 

In  this  connection,  the  following  statistical  state- 
ment of  building  done  prior  to  1871,  and  which  has 
been  compiled  from  such  sources  as  were  available,  is 
of  interest: 


R^-BUILDING    OF   CHICAGO. 


67 


Classification  (partial)  by  Value. 

Classification  (partial) 
by  Description. 

Year. 

Number  of 

Total  Cost. 

O   1-^ 

O    l- 

8S' 

O     U 

0     . 

"n  8 

0 

2rf 

o   . 

0 

»§ 

in  in 

d 

V 

4 

Erected. 

I* 

~S 

<n^ 

*  « 

t° 

a  -rt 

As 

**  a 

R° 

O-Q 

*§ 

8  ° 

Is 

tf* 

li 

&* 

I* 

if 
*<» 

IJ 

Small 
Cottages. 

1.2 

o-'5 

s 

P 

CQ 

g 

js 
u 

| 
1 

1864 

6,000 

S  4,700,000 

4 

ii 

29 

4s 

200 

700 

5.OOO 

4 

9 

2 

[865 

6,37" 

6,950,000 

I 

2 

6 

13 

45 

54 

250 

800 

5,200 

6 

__ 

9 

8 

1866 

6  700 

1  1  OOO  OOO 

1  1 

IO 

24 

7 

1867 

5,OOO* 

8,500,000 

I 

2 

9 

14 

25 

62 





7 

1  868 

7  OOO 

14  000,000 

4O 

IQ 

1  869 

I  I  OOO  OOO 

1870 

—  - 

12,000,000 

*  The  cause  of  the  decrease  in  the  building  operations  of  this  year  is  to  be  found  in  the    eight  hour   strike,  which  occurred  in  May,  and  caused  many 
to  defer  or  abandon  a  previously  formed  intention  to  build  that  year. 


It  is  estimated  that  in  the  spring  of  1868,  the  total 
number  of  buildings  in  the  city  was  39,366,  of  which 
35,654  were  of  wood.  The  number  of  dwelling-houses 
was  32,047;  stores,- 3,980;  saloons,  1,696;  workshops 
and  factories,  1,307.  In  1869,  the  estimated  number 
of  buildings  was  43,920,  and  at  the  time  of  the  fire  of 
1871,  the  number  was  not  far  from  60,000.  It  is  a 
matter  of  regret  that  the  foregoing  statement  can  not 
be  made  fuller,  and  that  it  can  fairly  be  called  only  an 
estimate.  The  meagre  details  extant,  however,  prevent 
the  giving  of  anything  but  an  approximation. 

The  following  table  gives  a  detailed  statement  of 
buildings  for  which  permits  have  been  issued  since 
January  i,  1877: 


In  summing  up  the  foregoing  brief  review  of  the 
building  done,  and  the  architectural  advance  and 
changes  worthy  of  note,  in  Chicago's  history  since  the 
catastrophe  of  1871,  it  may  be  remarked,  that  this  pe- 
riod has  witnessed  the  erection  of  nearly  all  the  city's 
prominent  public  buildings,  which  alone  represent  an 
expenditure  aggregating,  in  round  numbers,  $7,000,000; 
that  during  these  fifteen  years  the  whole  of  the  present 
business  portion  of  Chicago  had  been  re-built;  while 
almost  countless  private  residences — some  of  them  of 
rare  beauty  and  even  magnificence — have  been  raised. 

Following  are  given  the  personal  sketches  of  some 
