They had marched perhaps a mile and a half when Captain Wells, who had been keeping some way ahead with his Miamis, came riding furiously back.

"They are about to attack us," he shouted. "Form instantly, and charge upon them."

The words were barely out of his mouth when a volley came down on them from among the sand-hills. The troops were hurried into line and charged up the bank. One man, a veteran of seventy winters, fell as they went up. The rest of the scene is best given in the words of someone who saw it and took part in the tragedy — Mrs. Helm, wife of Captain (then Lieutenant) Helm and step-daughter of Mr. Kinzie.

"After we had left the bank the firing became general. The Miamis fled at the outset. Their chief rode up to the Pottowattamies and said:

"'You have deceived the Americans and us. You have done a bad action, and' — brandishing his tomahawk — 'I will be the first to head a party of Americans back here to punish your treachery.' With that he galloped off after his companions, who were by then scouring away across the prairie.

"The troops behaved most gallantly. There was only a handful of them, but they seemed determined to sell their lives as dearly as they could. Our horses pranced and plunged and could hardly be held as the balls whistled among them. I drew off a little way and looked at my husband and my father, who were both still unharmed. I felt that my hour had come, and I tried to put the people I loved out of my mind and get myself ready for what was about to happen to me.

"While I was doing that, the surgeon, Dr. Van Voorhees, came up. He was badly wounded. His horse had been shot under him and he had taken a ball in the leg. Every muscle in his face was quivering with the agony of his terror. He said to me, 'Do you think they will take our lives? I am badly wounded, but I think not mortally. Maybe we might purchase our lives by promising them a large reward. Do you think there is any chance?'

"'Dr. Van Voorhees,' I said, 'let us not waste the few moments we have left on such vain hopes. Our fate is settled. In a few minutes we must appear before the bar of God. Let us make what preparation is still in our power.'

"'Oh, I can't die!' he cried. 'I am not fit to die — if I only had a short time to prepare — death is awful!'

"I pointed to Ensign Ronan, who, though mortally wounded and nearly down, was still fighting desperately on one knee. 'Look at that man!' I said. 'At least he dies like a soldier.'

"'Yes,' the poor man answered, with a convulsive gasp, 'but he has no terrors of the future — he is an unbeliever!'

"Just then a young Indian swung his tomahawk at me. I sprang aside and partly dodged it; it had been aimed at my skull, and it landed on my shoulder. I got him around the neck, and while I was straining every muscle to get hold of his scalping-knife, which hung in a scabbard over his chest, I was dragged out of his grip by another Indian, an older one.
