One of General Hull's stipulations at the surrender of Detroit — which took place the day after the massacre at Chicago — was that the inhabitants should be allowed to stay undisturbed in their own homes. So Mr. Kinzie's family moved in with their friends in the old mansion that many people will still remember standing on the northwest corner of Jefferson Avenue and Wayne Street.

All through the winter that followed, the citizens had their indignation and their sympathy stirred up again and again. Almost every day they were made to watch the cruelties practised on the American prisoners brought in by their Indian captors. Men who could barely drag their wounded, bleeding feet across the frozen ground were forced to dance for the savages' amusement, and these exhibitions sometimes took place in front of the Government House, where Colonel McKee lived. Some of the British officers watched these heart-rending performances from their windows; for the honor of humanity, we will hope such cases were rare.

Anything among the citizens' possessions that could be turned to use was offered up to ransom their countrymen out of the hands of these inhuman beings. The prisoners brought in from the River Raisin — those unfortunate men who, after their surrender to General Proctor, were allowed to be tortured and murdered by inches by his savage allies — roused the sympathy of the whole community and called it into action. Private houses were turned into hospitals, and everyone pressed forward to get hold of as many of the survivors as they could. To manage it, the ladies of Detroit bartered away even the clothes they owned, as they watched from their doors and windows while the miserable victims were carried about for sale.

In Mr. Kinzie's house, one large room was given over to receiving the sufferers. Few of them lived. Among those spoken of as objects of the deepest interest were two young gentlemen from Kentucky, brothers, both badly wounded, their wounds made mortal by the ill usage and hardship that followed. The way they worried about each other, and showed in every sort of way the tenderest brotherly affection, left an impression nobody who saw it ever forgot.

The last bargain of all was made by black Jim and one of the children, who were given permission to redeem a negro servant of the gallant Colonel Allen — paying with an old white horse, the only thing of any use left among their possessions.

A brother of Colonel Allen came to Detroit later on, and the negro chose to go back into servitude rather than stay on as a stranger in a strange land.
