Chicago, at the time of my first visit, was not the cheerful, happy place it had once been. The deaths of Dr. Wolcott, of Lieutenant Furman, and of a promising young son of Mr. Beaubien, all within a few weeks of each other, had cast a gloom over every branch of the social circle.

The weather, too, was harsher and stormier than anything anyone had known before. In a stretch of two months the sun shone out through a whole day only twice. As late as the second week in April, when my husband had left to go back to Fort Winnebago, the storms were so severe that he and his men had to lie by for two or three days in an Indian lodge.

Robert Kinzie, Medard Beaubien, and Billy Caldwell had gone off at the same time to the Calumet to hunt, and when they did not turn up for many days we became convinced they had frozen to death. They came back at last, to our infinite joy, having escaped freezing only through the forethought of Robert and Caldwell in each carrying two blankets instead of one.

Our only recreation was a ride on horseback now and then, when the weather allowed it, through the woods on the north side of the river, or out across the prairie along the lake shore to the south.

When we went north, a little bridle-path carried us along what is now Rush Street. The thick boughs of the trees arched over our heads, and as we rode we often had to break away the branches of the shrubs that stuck out into our path. The little prairie west of Wright's Woods was where this ride usually ended.

When we took the path across the prairie to the south, we generally passed a newcomer, Dr. Harmon, who would be supervising the building of a sod fence at a spot he had picked out near the shore of the lake. As the season came on, he busied himself inside this enclosure planting fruit-stones of every description, to get a garden and orchard ready for future enjoyment.

We usually stopped for a little chat. The Doctor's two favorite subjects were horticulture and the certain future importance of Chicago. That it was destined to be a great city was a conviction nothing could shake in him, and indeed, by this time, forest and prairie though it all was, we were half beginning to believe it ourselves.

On the pleasant afternoons we sometimes got as the season came on, we found no small amusement in practising pistol-firing. The place set aside for this sport was outside the pickets, with the mark put up on a panel in one of the bastions. The gentlemen must not take offense if I record that in time the ladies got skilful enough to come off triumphant as a general thing. One of them, Mrs. Hunter, was a great shot; she had brought down her grouse on the wing, to the great delight of one of the officers, Captain Martin Scott, of raccoon celebrity.

Every now and then there was a little excitement inside the fort, set off by the discovery that some settler had been selling milk-punch instead of milk to the soldiers, and so interfering in no small degree with the regularity and perfect discipline of the service. The first step was to "drum out" the offender with all the honors of war — that is, in a party-colored suit, with the Rogue's March played along behind him. The next was to put all the victims of the deception into the guard-house, where the commanding officer's lady supplied them generously with coffee and hot cakes, by way of opening their eyes to the enormity of their offense. It is no wonder the officers sometimes complained that with the soldiers it was more a contest over who could get into the guard-house than who could keep out of it. The poor fellows knew when they were well off.

One Sunday we were rowed up to Wolf Point to attend a religious service conducted by Father See, as he was called.

What we saw was a tall, thin man in a green frock-coat, out of the sleeves of which dangled a pair of hands that gave abundant evidence, along with the rest of his dress, that he put little faith in the maxim that cleanliness is a part of holiness.

He stepped briskly up onto a little platform behind a table and began his discourse. His subject was "The fear of God."

"There is a kind of fear," he told us, "that is so nearly a-lee-a-nated to love that it isn't worth splitting hairs over the difference." He then set about describing this kind of fear. He got more and more tangled as he went along, until at last, thoroughly bewildered, he stopped and exclaimed, "Come, let's stop a little while and clear away the brush." He untangled the snarled thread of his ideas as well as he could and went on with his subject. But soon he lost his way again and came to a second halt. "Now," he said, wiping the perspiration off his forehead with a red cotton handkerchief many degrees from clean, "now, suppose we drive back a little piece." So he went over again what he wanted to impress on us about the necessity of cherishing a fear that maketh wise unto salvation — "which fear," he said, "may we all enjoy, that together we may soar away on the rolling clouds of aether to a boundless and happy eternity, which is the wish of your humble servant." And flinging his hands wide, with the best of dancing-school bows, he took his seat.

You can imagine that we found our own religious exercises at home more edifying than anything like this, and that we kept to them from then on.

When our brother Robert Kinzie came back from Palestine — not the Holy Land, but the seat of the Land Office — with the certificate of the family's title to the part of Chicago since known as "Kinzie's Addition," we looked on it as establishing a home for us at some future day, if the glorious dreams of good Dr. Harmon and a few others should ever come true. One little incident will show how modest most people's expectations were at that period.

The certificate, issued in Robert's name (he was representing the family in making the application), covered only a fractional quarter-section of one hundred and two acres instead of the full hundred and sixty, since the river and Lake Michigan cut off fifty-eight acres along the southern and eastern lines of the quarter. The applicants were free to choose their remaining fifty-eight acres out of any unappropriated land that suited them.

"Now, my son," his mother said to Robert, "lay your claim on the corn-field at Wolf Point. It is fine land, and it will always be valuable for cultivation; besides, since it faces down the main river, the situation will always be a convenient one."

The answer was a hearty laugh. "Listen to mother!" said Robert. "We have just got a hundred and two acres — more than we shall ever want, or know what to do with — and now she wants me to go and claim fifty-eight more!"

"Take my advice, my boy," his mother said again, "or you may live one day to regret it."

"Well, I can't see how I could ever regret not getting more than we can possibly use." And there the matter ended. The fifty-eight acres were never claimed, and I think there was a very general feeling that asking for our just rights in the case would have looked grasping and covetous. How much wiser five-and-twenty years have made us!

During my stay of two months at Chicago, our mother often entertained me with stories of her early life and adventures. What follows is her history of her captivity among the Senecas. I have put it into the form of a tale, but without the slightest departure from the facts as I had them from her lips and from those of her sister, Mrs. William Forsyth of Sandwich (C.W.) — the little Maggie of the story.
