I would be doing the hospitable settlers of Hickory Creek an injustice if I passed over the entertainment they got up in honor of our Chicago beaux about this time. The merry-making was to be a ball, and all five of Chicago's single gentlemen were invited. Mr. Dole, who was a new-comer, declined. Lieutenant Foster was on duty — but he did something better than accepting the invitation: he lent his beautiful horse to Medard Beaubien, who, along with Robert Kinzie and Gholson Kercheval, was promising himself a great deal of fun eclipsing the local beaux and creating a sensation among the belles of Hickory Creek.

Chicago was then, as it is now, looked on as the City with a capital C. Its handful of inhabitants were thought to have seen something of the world, and one gathers that the arrival of these smart, dashing young men was looked forward to with a good deal more satisfaction by the fair of the little settlement than by the swains whose rivals they might become.

The day came, and the gentlemen set off in high spirits. They took care to be in good season, since the dancing was to begin at two in the afternoon. They were well mounted, each of them proud of the animal he was riding, and they wore their best suits, as befitted city gallants who meant to cut out their less fashionable neighbors and break the hearts of admiring country damsels.

When they reached the appointed place they were received with great politeness. Their steeds were taken care of, a dinner was provided for them, and afterward they were ushered into the dancing-hall.

All the beauty of the neighboring precincts was assembled. The ladies were mostly white, or what passed for white, with an occasional dash of copper color. There was no shortage of bombazet gowns and large white pocket-handkerchiefs perfumed with oil of cinnamon, and as they took their places in long rows on the puncheon floor, they made a merry, happy company.

But the city gentlemen grew more and more gallant, the girls more and more delighted with the attention — and the country swains, alas, more and more scowling and jealous. They cut pigeon-wings and double-shuffles, and it got them nowhere. They nearly dislocated their hips and shoulders at "hoe corn and dig potatoes," and it got them nowhere. They had the mortification of watching the smart young sprigs from Chicago take their pick and choose among their very own sweethearts, while they themselves were fairly danced off the ground.

The revelry lasted until daylight, and then it was time to think about getting home. Nobody came forward with obliging politeness to bring them their horses from the stable.

"Poor fellows!" said one of the party, with a compassionate sort of laugh. "They couldn't stand it. They've gone home to bed!"

"Serves them right," said another. "They'd better not ask us down among their girls again!"

They groped their way to the stable and went in. There were some animals standing at the manger, but they were clearly not their horses. What could they be? Had the rogues been trying to cheat them by putting these strange nondescripts in their place?

They led them out into the gray of the morning — and then, what a trio met their eyes!

The bodies were the original ones, true enough — but where were the manes and tails? A scrubby, spiky ridge along the neck, and a bare stump sticking out behind, were all that was left of the flowing honors they had come gallivanting down in to "bear away the bell" at Hickory Creek — or, in the emphatic language of the country, "to take the rag off the bush."

Gholson sat down on a log and cried outright. Medard took the matter more philosophically — the horse was not his; it was Lieutenant Foster's.

Robert, characteristically, looked around to see who he could knock down over it, but there was nobody in sight on whom to wreak their vengeance.

The bumpkins had stolen away and were tucked up in some safe, quiet corner enjoying their triumph — and the deceitful fair ones were surely at their sides by now, sharing in the mirth and the exultation.

The unlucky gallants mounted their steeds and set their faces homeward. There was never a more crestfallen, sorrier-looking cavalcade. The poor horses seemed to understand that they had been given the same treatment as King David's messengers at the hands of the evil-disposed Hanun. They hung their heads, and plainly wished they could have "tarried at Jericho" for a season. Unfortunately there was in those days no back way by which they could steal in unobserved. They had to make their approach across the prairie in view of the whole community — and, to add to their confusion, stirring events being so rare, it was the custom of the whole settlement to turn out and welcome the arrival of any new-comer.

They beat as hasty a retreat as they could manage, through the shouts and the jeers and the condolences of their acquaintances; and it is on record that these three young gentlemen were in no hurry, at any later time, to accept an invitation to partake of the festivities of Hickory Creek.
