The one thing that spoiled the little prisoner's happiness, apart from her longing for her own dear home, was the hostility she met from the wife of the Big White Man. From the day the child arrived at the village and was adopted into the family as a sister, this woman had conceived the bitterest animosity toward her — which at first she had the prudence to hide from her husband.

It was perhaps natural for a wife to give in to some jealousy at seeing her own place in her husband's heart taken by the child of their enemy, the American. But those feelings were made worse by a bad, vindictive temper, and by the indifference with which her husband listened to her complaints and her grumbling.

Since she had no children of her own to occupy her, her mind fastened all the harder on her imagined wrongs and on ways of putting them right. She did not have to wait long for a chance to try.

While the Big White Man was away on some war-party or hunting trip, his little sister came down with fever and ague. The Old Queen nursed her with the greatest tenderness — and the chief's wife, to lull suspicion and get her purpose accomplished that way, was just as tireless in her attentions to the little favorite.

One afternoon, while the Old Queen happened to be out, her daughter-in-law came into the lodge with a bowl of something she had prepared. She stooped down to the mat where the child lay and said, in an affectionate voice, "Drink, my sister. I have brought you what will drive this fever far away from you."

As she raised her head to answer, the little girl caught sight of a pair of eyes peering through a crack in the lodge wall, fixed on her with a very odd and pointed expression. With the quick perception that came partly from her nature and partly from living among these people, she answered faintly, "Set it down, my sister. When this fit of the fever has passed, I will drink your medicine."

The squaw was too cautious to press her. She busied herself around the lodge for a short while, then went off to another one close by. All that time the bright eyes went on peering through the opening, until they had watched their object well out of sight. Then a low voice — the voice of a young friend and playmate — spoke.

"Don't drink what your brother's wife brought you. She hates you, and she is only waiting for a chance to be rid of you. I have watched her all morning and seen her gathering the deadliest roots and herbs. I knew who they were meant for, and I came here to warn you."

"Take the bowl," said the little invalid, "and carry it to my mother's lodge."

That was done. What was in the bowl turned out to be mostly a decoction of May-apple root, the deadliest poison the Indians know of.

There is no language that can describe the indignation that swept through the little community when this discovery came out. The squaws ran back and forth, as they do when they are excited, each one outdoing the last in piling abuse on the culprit. For the present, though, no further punishment was inflicted on her; once the first burst of rage was over, she was treated with silent loathing.

The little patient was moved to the Old Queen's lodge and closely guarded, while her enemy was left to wander in silence and solitude around the fields and woods until her husband came back and decided what her punishment would be.

In a few days the expedition was over and the Big White Man came back to the village with his party. Contrary to the usual custom of savages, his first reaction on hearing of the attempt on his little sister's life was not to take summary vengeance on the offender. He satisfied himself with banishing her from his lodge, never to return, and sentencing her to hoe corn in a distant part of the big field, the enclosure that served the whole community as a garden.

She would still show her vindictive streak whenever the little girl and her companions happened to wander over that way — she would swing at her with the hoe, or find some other spiteful thing to do — but either she was watched too closely, or she stood too much in awe of her former husband, to make another attempt on his sister's life.
