In due time the Napoleon appeared. (What a pity that so great a name has to be used in the feminine!) There was no harbor at this period, so vessels anchored outside the bar — the tongue of land that formed the left bank of the river — and the loading and unloading were done by boats pulling in and out through the mouth of the river, some distance below.

Naturally it was always a matter of great importance to get a vessel loaded as quickly as possible, so that she would be ready to take advantage of the first fair wind and get away from such an exposed and hazardous place to lie at anchor.

That is why we had been living packed up for days. We meant only to see our friends safely on board and then start our own journey back to Fort Winnebago.

Our heavy furniture, trunks and so on had been sent aboard the Napoleon, to be brought around to us by way of the Fox River. We had kept only the few necessities that could be carried conveniently on a pack-horse and in a light dearborn wagon that Mr. Kercheval had lately brought out from Detroit — the first luxury of the kind ever seen on the prairies — which my husband had bought as a pleasant way of conveying his mother and little nephew.

Moving the belongings of that many families of officers and soldiers, along with all the odds and ends that go with a complete change and removal, took no small amount of time and labor by the slow method described. But it was all happily accomplished: everything, down to the last article, sent on board, and nobody left on shore but the passengers, whose turn would come next.

It was a moment of great relief, because Captain Hinckley had been in a fever and a fuss for many hours, predicting a change in the weather and grumbling at what he thought was an unnecessary number of boat-loads to be taken on board.

Those who had leisure to be looking out toward the schooner, which had stayed anchored about half a mile out in the lake, had at this crisis the satisfaction of watching her hoist sail and leave her station for the open lake. Those who looked a little later could just make her out bearing away into the distance, as if she had got everything on board that she had any intention of taking. And there we were — and there we might stay a week or more, if that suited Captain Hinckley, and the schooner Napoleon, and the good east wind that was blowing with all its might.

There was plenty of provisions to be had, so starving was not the trouble; the trouble was how to manage the cooking and the table. All sorts of makeshifts were resorted to. Mrs. Engle, upstairs in her quarters, ate her breakfast off a shingle with her husband's jack-knife, and when she had finished she sent them both down to Lieutenant Foster for his accommodation.

We were at the old mansion on the north side, and the news soon flew up the river that the Napoleon had gone off with "the plunder" and left the people behind. It was not long before Mrs. Portier — our kind Victoire — supplied us with dishes, knives, forks, and all the other conveniences our mess-basket could not.

This state of things lasted a couple of days, and then early one fine morning the gratifying news spread like wildfire that the Napoleon was lying at anchor out beyond the bar.

There was no unnecessary delay this time, and by early afternoon we had taken leave of our dear friends and they were sailing away from Chicago.
