The order to abandon the post was read out at parade the next morning. It is hard to understand why Captain Heald, in an emergency like that, skipped the usual step of calling a council of war with his officers. The only way to account for it is that he and one of his junior officers were not on good terms — Ensign Ronan, a high-spirited and somewhat overbearing young man, though a brave and generous one.

During the day, finding that no council had been called, the officers went to Captain Heald themselves to ask what course he meant to take. When they heard his intentions, they argued against them, on these grounds.

First: it was very unlikely that the command would be allowed to get through the country to Fort Wayne safely. It was true that some of the chiefs were said to have opposed the attack on the fort planned the previous autumn — but everyone knew they had done that out of private regard for one family, the Kinzies, and not out of any general good feeling toward Americans. And in any case there was hardly reason to expect that a handful of men could control the whole tribe, which was thirsting for blood.

Next: the march would have to be slow, because they would have to move at the pace of the women and children, who were helpless and of whom there were a number with the detachment. And of their small force, some of the soldiers were too old for service and others were sick. Since the course to be taken had been left to his discretion, their unanimous advice was to stay where they were and fortify the place as strongly as they could. Help from the other side of the peninsula might arrive before the British could come down from Mackinac and attack them; and even if it did not, falling into British hands was far better than becoming the victims of the savages.

Captain Heald answered that the War Department had issued a special order that no post was to be surrendered without a battle being given, and that his force was completely unequal to an engagement with the Indians. He said he would certainly be blamed for staying when there seemed to be a good prospect of marching through safely. All things considered, he thought the sensible course was to assemble the Indians, hand out the property to them, and then ask them for an escort to Fort Wayne, with the promise of a considerable reward once they arrived. He added that he had full confidence in the Indians' professions of friendship — and that the capture of Mackinac had been kept a close secret from them, as well as from the soldiers.

From then on the officers kept their distance and said very little about it, though they thought Captain Heald's plan was not far short of madness. The discontent among the soldiers grew by the hour until it reached a high pitch of insubordination.

On one occasion, while Captain Heald was talking with Mr. Kinzie out on the parade, he said, "I couldn't stay, even if I thought it best, for I have but a small store of provisions."

"Why, captain," said a soldier standing nearby, forgetting all etiquette in the excitement of the moment, "you have cattle enough to last the troops six months."

"But," replied Captain Heald, "I have no salt to preserve it with."

"Then jerk it," said the man, "as the Indians do their venison."
