A day or two before we were due to leave, a large part of the command had set out to march overland to Green Bay by way of Fort Winnebago, taking with them the cattle that belonged to the officers and the soldiers. Lieutenant Foster, who was in charge of them, had hung back so that he could have the pleasure of joining our party, and we in turn had held off so that we could see the other members of our family safely aboard the Napoleon. Now everything was ready, and we turned our faces homeward again.

We took with us a little bound-girl named Josette, a bright, pretty child of ten. Her father was Ouilmette, a Frenchman who had been living here at the time of the Massacre, and her mother was Pottowattamie. She had been at the St. Joseph's mission school under Mr. McCoy, and she was now full of delight at the prospect of a trip all the way to the Portage with Monsieur and Madame John.

We also had a negro boy, Harry, whom Mr. Kercheval had brought up from Kentucky a year earlier. Moving him at that time out of a slave state and into a free one changed his position somewhat — he could now be nothing more than an indentured servant. He was about to become part of Dr. Wolcott's household, and he had to choose a guardian. All of this was explained to him when he was brought into the parlor where the family were gathered. My husband was a young man then, home on a visit. "Now, Harry," he was told, "you must choose your guardian." Everyone naturally expected Harry to pick the oldest and most dignified person he knew. Instead he rolled his big eyes around, hung his head over to one side, and said, "I'll have Master John for my guardian."

From that day on Harry felt that he belonged, in a manner of speaking, to Master John, and when the family in Chicago broke up he was naturally transferred to our household.

There were three ladies in our travelling party: our mother, our sister Mrs. Helm, and myself. To guard our faces against the burning of the sun and the prairie wind, I had spent some of the last days of my visit making each of us a mask out of brown linen, with the holes for eyes, nose and mouth cut to fit our features. To make them as hideous as possible I had worked eyebrows and eyelashes, and a circle around the opening for the mouth, in black silk. They gathered into pleats under the chin, and had strings to tie them above and below, and they were complete protection against the sun and the wind — though nothing more frightful can be imagined than the sight of the three of us fully equipped. The competition was over which of us should be called the ugliest.

We left to the good wishes and the laughter of the few acquaintances we had left. Our wagon had been fitted out with a pair of excellent travelling horses, and since sister Margaret and I had been given the best pacers the country could supply, we set off toward the Aux Plaines in high spirits. Our old friend Billy Caldwell — the Sau-ga-nash — came with us as far as that, along with our brother Robert and Gholson Kercheval.
