While all these things were going forward, we had frequent visits from our Indian friends. First and foremost among them was "the young Dandy," Four-Legs.

One fine morning he turned up with two squaws, whom he introduced as his wives. He could speak a little Chippewa, and by that means he and our mother managed to keep up something like a conversation. He was dressed in all his finery — brooches, wampum, fan, looking-glass and all. The paint on his face and chest showed that he had put no small amount of time into the labors of his toilet.

He took a chair, as he had seen people do at Washington, and signed to his women to sit down on the floor.

Taking two wives is not a very general custom among the Indians. They seem to have the sense to see that the fewer of them a man has to manage, the more complete the peace and quiet of the wigwam.

Even so, a husband sometimes takes a foolish fancy to a second squaw, and then he uses all his cunning and eloquence to reconcile the first to having a new inmate in the lodge. Of course it is a business that has to be handled adroitly if harmony is to be preserved.

"My dear, your health isn't very good; it's time you had some rest. You have worked very hard, and it grieves me that you should have to labor any longer. Let me get you some nice young squaw to wait on you, so that you can live at your ease for the rest of your life."

The first wife consents — indeed, she has no choice in the matter. And if she happens to be of a jealous, vindictive turn, what a life the newcomer leads! The old one keeps every one of her rights as dowager and duenna, and the husband's tenderness is hardly compensation for all the misery the young rival is made to suffer.

It was on a Sunday morning that the Dandy paid us this visit. We were all sitting quietly, reading. Four-Legs asked my mother why we were doing that, and why everything around us was so still.

My mother explained how we kept the day of rest — that we gave it to worshipping and serving the Great Spirit, as he had commanded in his Holy Word.

Four-Legs nodded his approval. That was quite right, he said; he was glad to see us doing our duty. He was very religious himself, and he liked to see other people religious too. He always took care that his squaws attended to their duties — not reading, perhaps, but the sort of thing the Great Spirit liked, and that he himself thought proper and becoming.

He had no taste at all for listening to any account of the points where we differed. The conviction among the Winnebagoes that "if the Great Spirit had wanted them different from what they are, he would have made them so" seems too strong to give way to either argument or persuasion.

Sometimes the ones who want to appear a little civilized will listen quietly to everything you can say on the subject of Christianity, and then remark coolly, "Yes, we believe that too," and turn the talk to something else.

As a rule they don't seem to see that there is anything to be gained by taking up the religion and the customs of the whites. "Look at them," they say. "Always toiling and striving — always wearing a worried face — shut up in houses — afraid of the wind and the rain — miserable the moment they are deprived of the comforts of life! We, on the other hand, live a life of freedom and happiness. We hunt and fish, and pass our time pleasantly in the open woods and prairies. If we are hungry, we take some game, and if we don't find any, we can go without. If our enemies trouble us, we can kill them, and no more is said about it. What would we gain by turning ourselves into white men?"
