Among the women of the tribe we got to know early on, our great favorite was a daughter of one of the Day-kau-rays. That family, as I have said elsewhere, claimed a cross of French blood some generations back, which might account for our friend's fair complexion and her soft, curling hair. She had a noble forehead, full, expressive eyes, and fine teeth. Unlike the women of her people generally, she had not grown brown and haggard as the years went on. In fact, but for one feature, you could have called her beautiful.

Many years earlier she had married a Mus-qua-kee, or Fox Indian, and, according to the custom among all the tribes, the husband came home to the wife's family and lived among the Winnebagoes.

It is this custom — exactly the reverse of the civilized way of doing things — that makes the birth of a daughter something to be particularly glad about in an Indian family. "She will bring another hunter to our lodge" is how they congratulate each other.

The Mus-qua-kee went on living among his wife's relations for some years, but since no children came of the marriage he eventually grew tired of his new friends and wanted to go back to his own people. For a while he tried to talk his wife into leaving her home and going with him to the Mississippi, on whose banks the Sauks and Foxes lived. It was no use. She couldn't bring herself to make the sacrifice.

One day, after a great many failed attempts to persuade her, he flew into a violent rage.

"Then if you won't come with me," he said, "I'll leave you — but you shall never be any other man's wife. I will mark you!"

With that he threw himself on her and bit off the end of her nose. This is the usual punishment for a wife's infidelity, and it is the greatest disgrace a woman can suffer — it shuts her out of marriage for good. The wretch fled back to his own people, but his revenge missed its mark. Day-kau-ray was too well known and too universally respected for any member of his family to be looked down on. This bright, loving creature in particular won every heart the moment people met her — she certainly won ours, from the very first.

She suffered a great deal from rheumatism, and a remedy we gave her soon brought her almost complete relief. There were no limits to her gratitude. Even though the long years of pain had left her partly crippled, she would walk the whole way from the Barribault, ten miles, as often as once every two or three weeks, just to visit us. Then she would sit and gaze at us, laugh with a child's delight at anything new or strange we happened to be busy with, pat and stroke us every time we came near her, sometimes lift our hand or arm and kiss it — those were her ways of showing affection. And we loved her back. It was always a happy announcement when somebody looking out along the Portage road called, "The Cut-Nose is coming!" In time, though, we learned to call her by her baptismal name, Elizabeth, for she too was one of Mr. Mazzuchelli's converts.
