The companies of the First Infantry that had been stationed at Fort Winnebago up to then had received orders, before we arrived, to move on to the Mississippi as soon as they were relieved by part of the Fifth, which was then at Fort Howard.

A good many of the officers of the Fifth were married, so we had reason to expect that every set of quarters at the post would be spoken for. That was why, although Major Twiggs pressed us hard to come and live in the Fort again until he went off on furlough, we thought it best to set ourselves up at once at "the Agency."

It seemed laughable to give so grand a name to such a very small concern. The heads of department at Washington had promised us a comfortable home as soon as Congress made an appropriation big enough to cover any extra expense in the Indian Department. Congress clearly had a great spite against us, because it had put off attending to our accommodation for two sessions running. There was nothing for it, then, but to make ourselves comfortable with the best means we had.

The old log barracks that had been built for the officers and soldiers when the post was first set up, two years earlier, had been taken to pieces by our French engagés and put up again on the little hill across from the Fort. Some additions were now made to them — a dairy, stables, a smoke-house and so on, built of tamarack logs hauled from the swamp nearby. The whole thing looked very rough and primitive.

The main building was a row of four rooms, no two of which connected with each other; each one opened by its own door straight onto the outside air. A small window cut through the logs at the front and another at the back let in the light. An enormous clay chimney, one for every two rooms, took up one side of each, and the ceiling overhead was a few rough boards laid across the transverse logs that held up the roof.

It was surprising how quickly those old dilapidated rooms took on a comfortable, homelike air, with a few Indian mats spread on the floor, the piano and the rest of the furniture set in their proper places, and even a few pictures hung up against the logs. The pictures, alas, soon had to come down again, because with the first heavy shower the rain found its way in through any number of crevices, and we saw that we would have to put carefully aside everything the wet could damage. We made light of these troubles — but we packed our carpets and spare furniture away on the boards overhead, which we dignified with the name of attic, and settled down contentedly to wait for the time when the Government should condescend to remember us. The greatest inconvenience I had to put up with was having to wear my straw bonnet all day long as I went from bedroom to parlor and from parlor to kitchen. I got so used to it that I sometimes even forgot to take it off when I sat down at the table, or to my quiet occupations with my mother and sister.
