Christian missionaries, for all their efforts to convert them, had so far made very little headway in enlightening their minds on the doctrines of the Gospel. Mr. Mazzuchelli, a Roman Catholic priest, came to the Portage on a missionary visit while we were living there, bringing Miss Elizabeth Grignon with him as interpreter, and after some instruction from him about forty of them agreed to be baptized. They were given Christian names, which seemed to please them a great deal, and they were no less pleased with the little plated crucifixes each of them received, which the women wore round their necks. They seemed to regard these with real devotional feeling, but I didn't know enough of their language to find out from them whether they understood the doctrine the symbol was meant to convey. What is certain is that they expressed no wish to learn our language so as to know more fully about the Saviour, and no anxiety to be taught anything more about him than they had got during the missionary's short visit.

One woman, who had been given the name Charlotte, let it be known that she wanted to learn the domestic ways of the whites, and asked me, as a favor, through Madame Paquette, to be allowed to come on "washing-day" and learn from my servants how we managed the business. She was given a tub, and my woman showed her by signs and example what she was to do. I was more than a little curious to see how things were going, so after a while I made my way out to the kitchen where they all were. Charlotte was at her tub, scouring and rubbing away at her little crucifix with all her might. Two other squaws sat on the floor near her, watching the operation.

"That's the work she's been at for the last half-hour," said Josette, thoroughly out of patience. "She'll never learn to wash."

Charlotte soon fell to work in earnest, though, and really looked as if she would tear her arms off with the violence of her exertions.

After a while, supposing she must feel pretty tired and worn out with work she wasn't used to, I did what was very much the fashion in those days — what I had always seen done at home on washing-day — what, in short, I imagine was then the general custom among housekeepers. I went to the dining-room closet meaning to give Charlotte a glass of wine, or of brandy and water. My "cupboard" turned out to be in the same state as the luckless Mother Hubbard's: there was nothing of the kind to be found but a bottle of orange shrub.

I poured out a wineglassful of it, carried it out, and offered it to her. She took it looking very pleased, but as she was lifting it to her lips she stopped short, exclaimed "Whiskey!" and handed it straight back to me. I would have pressed it on her even then, because in my inexperience I really believed a cordial was what she needed — but she pointed to her crucifix, shook her head, and went back to her work.

I took that as a lesson worth twenty sermons. It was the first time in my life that I had ever seen spirituous liquor refused on a religious principle, and it made an impression on me that I never forgot.
