It was on one of those days that we were sitting at the windows looking out over the Portage — we hardly ever sat anywhere else, since almost our only occupation was to look out and see what was coming next — when a loud, long, shrill whoop in the distance warned us there was something to hear. The news-halloo! What could it mean? What were we about to be told? Staring hard toward the far end of the road, we could make out a body of horsemen moving, and as they came closer we saw that they were Indians. They were in full costume. Scarlet streamers fluttered from the ends of their lances; their weapons glittered in the sun. As they drew nearer, the paint and the feathers and the brooches came into view. There were fifty warriors or more. They went past the road that turns off to the Fort and rode straight up the hill to the Agency. Shaw-nee-aw-kee was away. The Interpreter had been sent for the moment the strangers first appeared in the distance, but he hadn't come yet. The party climbed the hill, halted near the blacksmith's shop, and stayed on their horses.

Our hearts shook — it had to be the enemy. Just then my husband came into sight from the direction of the Interpreter's house. We called out, begging him to stop, but he walked straight on toward the new arrivals.

To our enormous joy, we saw the chief of the party get down off his horse, and all the rest follow his example and come forward to shake hands.

A space was soon cleared around the leader and my husband, and the leader began a speech, brandishing his sword and gesturing violently. It was the first time I had ever seen an Indian armed with that weapon, and I hated the sight of it in such hands. Now and then he looked as though he were about to take his listener's head off at a stroke, and our hearts sank as we remembered the stratagems at Mackinac and Detroit in the old days. The speech finally ended, there was another round of hand-shaking, and we saw my husband leading the way to his storehouse, out of which some of his men soon brought tobacco and pipes and laid them at the chief's feet.

Our suspense was relieved soon enough, when we were told that the strangers were Man-Eater, the principal chief of the Rock River Indians, who had come with his band to "hold a talk" and bring us information.

These Indians were under the special care of Mr. Henry Gratiot, and his efforts to keep this, the most dangerous section of the Winnebagoes, well disposed toward us had been both shrewd and unremitting.

The news Man-Eater brought us — and he was a most noble Indian in appearance and in character — confirmed what we had already heard: that the Sauks were gradually working their way north, toward the Portage, though he plainly didn't know exactly where they were.
