Not long after they had taken their leave, another party of Winnebagoes arrived, and these asked permission to dance for their Father.

The compliment was accepted, and they gathered, as they always did, on the esplanade in front of the house. My sister, the children, and I took our usual places at the open windows, and my husband sat down on the broad step in front of the door, which opened straight from the outside air into the parlor where we were.

The dance began, and as the dancers went on, following each other round and round as the dance moved along, my sister, Mrs. Helm, said to me, "Look at that small, dark Indian with the green boughs on him — that's a Sauk! They always mark themselves that way with white clay, and put leaves on themselves when they dance." It was true that I had never seen that costume on any of our own Indians, and as I looked at this one, with green wreaths around his head and around his legs, and even his gun wound the same way, and no paint on his body at all except the white streaks running across it, I could see that he really was a stranger. Even allowing nothing for fear exaggerating things, his face was truly ferocious.

He held his gun in his hand, and every time the course of the dance brought him right in front of where we sat, he would turn and look full at us and club the weapon in front of him with what we read as an air of defiance. We sat as still as death, because we knew it would be unwise to show any sign of fear, but my sister said, in a low voice, "I have always thought I was going to lose my life at the hands of the Indians. This is the third Indian war I've been through, and now I think it will be the last."

It was the only time I ever saw her lose her self-possession. She was always remarkably calm and resolute, but now I could see that she was trembling. Still we sat there — there was a kind of fascination in it as our imaginations worked themselves up further and further. Then a few raindrops began to fall. The Indians kept dancing a few minutes longer, and then, with whoops and shouts, they all rushed the house at once. We fled into my room and shut the door, which my sister held closed at first, but she soon came and sat down beside me on the bed, because she could see that I couldn't get hold of myself. Of all the forms of death, the one at the hands of savages is the hardest to face calmly, and I fully believed that our hour had come.

The dance was not interrupted for a moment. The Indians carried it on in the parlor, leaping and yelling as if they meant to bring the roof down over our heads. We tried through a crack in the door to persuade my husband and the children to come and join us, and got nowhere. The children saw no danger and were far too delighted with the show to leave it, and my husband came only for a moment to reassure me, and then judged it wisest to go back and show, by being there, how pleased he was at the compliment. He made light of our fears, and wouldn't admit that the man we suspected was in fact a Sauk at all — only some young Winnebago who had copied their costume and appearance, as they sometimes do.

It may well have been "good fun" to him to go back to his village and tell how he had frightened "the white squaws." A white youth wouldn't be at all unlikely to play the same trick, and since human nature is everywhere the same, perhaps it isn't so out of the way in an Indian either.
