Among the other rumors that reached us at this time was one that the Sauks were planning an attack on Fort Winnebago. The Indians knew perfectly well that it was in no state to defend itself. Every effective man had been withdrawn from it, on a requisition from General Atkinson, to join him at his newly built fort at Kosh-ko-nong.

Fort Winnebago had no pickets around it. The barracks and the officers' quarters had no defences at all beyond flimsy panelled doors and Venetian blinds — nothing that would stand up long to clubs or hatchets. There was no artillery, and the Commissary's store stood outside the bounds of the Fort altogether, down under the hill.

Mr. Kinzie had pointed out to the officers from the beginning how insecure their position would be if danger came, and he generally got a scoffing answer for it.

"Never fear," they would say. "The Sauks aren't coming here to attack us."

One afternoon we were over on a visit to some of the ladies in the garrison, and since several officers were there, the talk turned, as it always did, to how things stood.

"Don't you think it would be wiser," I asked a blustering young officer, "to be prepared in case of danger?"

"Not against these fellows," he said contemptuously.

"I don't think I'd even take the trouble to fasten the blinds on my quarters."

"Well," I said, "if some night you find a tomahawk raised to split your skull, at least you'll have the consolation of remembering that you were never one of those foolish fellows who keep on the safe side."

He seemed a little nettled at that, and more so when sister Margaret put in: "Personally, I'm of Governor Cass's opinion. He was at Chicago during the Winnebago war. We were all getting ready to move into the fort at the first alarm, and some people were for being brave and holding off, like our friends here. 'Come, come,' said the Governor, 'get into the fort as fast as you possibly can — there's no merit in being brave with the Indians. It's the height of folly to stay and meet a danger you could avoid by being prudent.'"
