We didn't stop long on the high ground beyond the swamp. We had a long stretch ahead of us to Bellefontaine — forty-five miles, and not the shortest miles either.

Our horses went beautifully all afternoon, Charlie keeping up a canter the whole way. But it was getting dark, and there was still no sign of the landmarks that were supposed to tell us we were near the haven we wanted.

"Can't we stop and rest for a few minutes under one of the trees?" I asked. I was almost worn out with fatigue, and to add to how uncomfortable we already were, a cold November rain was pouring down on us.

"If it were possible, we would," he answered, "but look how dark it's getting. If we lost our way, that would be worse than being wet and tired."

So we kept going. Right at dark we crossed a clear stream. "That," my husband said, "is two miles from Bellefontaine, I think. Cheer up — we'll be there soon." That put some heart into us, and we went on more cheerfully. Mile after mile went by, and still no light gleamed at us in a friendly way through the trees.

"We have certainly gone more than six miles by now," I said.

"Yes — that can't have been the two-mile creek."

It was eight o'clock when we reached Bellefontaine. We were shown into a big room made cheerful by a huge blazing fire. Mr. Wing and Dr. Philleo had got there ahead of us, and there were other travelers as well, on their way up from the Mississippi. The enormous hostess — "la grosse Américaine," as she was called — received me with great kindness and a great flow of talk, and she soon had me installed in the arm-chair in the warmest corner, and in good time set an excellent supper in front of us.

Her hospitality did not, however, run as far as giving up her only bed for me. She spread out on the hard floor in front of the fire everything she could muster, and did what she could to make me comfortable. Then, noticing how anxious my husband was that I might fall ill from the fatigue and the rain, she said, in a tone of admiring sympathy, "How kind your companion is to you!" — a phrase that was new to us then, and that we found quite funny.

Our traveling companions set off early in the morning for the Fort, which was only twelve miles away, and they were kind enough to take charge of a note to our friends at home, asking them to send Plante with the carriage to bring us the rest of the way.

We reached the Portage safely, and that was the end of the first overland trip any white woman had made from Green Bay to Fort Winnebago. I went up considerably in my own estimation when my husband told me that the distance I had covered the day before, from Knaggs's to Bellefontaine, was sixty-two miles!
