In a few days our friends woke up to the conviction that something had to be done at once. The first step was to forbid any Winnebago to come inside the garrison, in case they should find out what they had known just as well as we had for the past three months — namely, how feeble the means of resistance were. The next was to send fatigue-parties out into the woods, under the protection of a guard, to cut pickets for fencing the garrison in.

There was every reason to believe that the enemy weren't far off, and that their object in coming north was to break a way through into the Chippewa country, where they would be safe among their friends and allies. The story our Indian runners brought in most often was that the Sauks were determined to fall on the whites at the Portage and the Fort and massacre them all, except the families of the Agent and the Interpreter.

Plante and Pillon had taken their families off at the first word of danger. The only ones left with us were Manaigre, whose wife was half Winnebago, Isidore Morrin, and the blacksmiths from Sugar Creek — Mâtâ and Turcotte.

At night we were all armed as a matter of routine, and each of us had a post assigned. Once every possible step had been taken to make the house secure, the orders were given out. If we were attacked, sister Margaret and I were to go upstairs with the children, while my husband and his men made good their defense against the enemy as long as they could. Since I had proved my marksmanship by accidentally bringing down a blackbird on the wing, I felt as though I could do some execution with my little pistols, which were laid beside my pillow every night, and I was fully resolved to use them if it came to that. I don't remember feeling the slightest compunction at the idea of taking the lives of two Sauks, as I certainly would have done — and that explains something I had often wondered at before, namely the indifference of a soldier on a battlefield to the destruction of human life. If I had actually been called on to use my weapons to effect, though, I have no doubt I would have looked back on it with horror.

Surrounded as we were by Indian lodges, which hardly ever became completely quiet, and with our nerves in the state that everything we were in the habit of hearing daily had put them in, we rarely slept very soundly. One night, after we had composed ourselves as well as we could, we were startled late by a tap on the window at the head of our bed, and a call of "Chon! Chon!" (John! John!)
