The storm got worse. The rain began coming down in torrents, and the thunder and the lightning followed each other with terrifying speed. My sister jumped up to wake the Frenchman. "Get up, Vitelle, quick," she called to him in French. "Run up the bank for Mâtâ and Mr. Arthur — tell them to come and get us this instant."

The man gave her no answer at all. He dropped to his knees and began calling on the Virgin at the top of his voice.

"Don't wait for the Virgin — just go, as fast as you possibly can. Can't you see we are all going to be killed?"

"Oh, not for the world, madame, not for the world," said Vitelle, burying his head in a pack of furs, "would I go up that bank in this storm." And with that he started howling to every saint in the calendar.

It really was terrible. The thunder rolling and the lightning flashing all around us were like a whole park of artillery firing without a pause. I managed, with some difficulty, to pull out my cloak and wrap it around myself and Josette, and sister Margaret did the same for Edwin.

"Oh, madame," said the poor little girl, her teeth chattering with cold and fright, "won't we be drowned?"

"Very well," my sister said to the Frenchman. "You can see that Madame John is in her last agony. If you will not go for help, I must — and Monsieur John shall know that you left his wife to die."

That was more than Vitelle could stand. "If I must, I must," he said, and with one desperate leap he was on shore and running up the hill with everything he had.

In a few minutes — though it felt like ages to us — a whole crowd of them came flying down the hill. The lightning was so constant that everything showed as clearly as in broad daylight. Mâtâ's curly hair stood straight up on his head, and his eyes rolled with a kind of ghastly amazement at the sight of us.

"Oh, my God, Madame Johns! what would Monsieur Johns say, to see you nows?" he cried, as he caught me up in his arms and carried me up the hill. Arthur came behind him with sister Margaret, and two others with Edwin and Josette. Nobody carried Vitelle, since he had been careful not to risk his precious life by going near the boat a second time.

When we reached the cabin where Arthur and Mâtâ had been lodged, a fire was got going, with some trouble, and our trunks were brought up from the boat. In the end we were able to trade our soaked clothes, and the children's, for something more comfortable. After that we lay down on the clean but plain bed and slept until daylight.
