When we got word on the forenoon of the second day that we were drawing near this spot, I have to admit that "we held our breath for awe."

The three Winnebagoes were up in the bow of the boat. Old Smoker, the chief, was squatting on his feet on the bench of the foremost rowers. We watched him. He was staring hard toward the wooded point we were coming up on. Our eyes followed his, and we saw three Indians step forward and stand on the bank. We said to each other in a low voice, "If they're Sauks, we're lost, because the whole body of them must be in that thicket." The boat kept coming on. Not a word was spoken. The dip of the paddle, and perhaps the beating of some hearts, were the only sounds that broke the stillness. We looked at the chief again. His nostrils were flared, his eyes almost glaring.

Then, all at once, he sprang to his feet with a bound and let out his long, shrill whoop.

"Hoh! hoh! hoh! Neechee (friend) Muh-no-mo-nee!"

Now it was all joy and gladness. Everyone pressed forward to shake hands with the strangers as soon as we could get to them, as a way of showing how glad we were that they were Menomonees and not Sauks — about whom, by the way, they could give us no news at all.

By noon that day we considered ourselves out of the region of danger. Caution still seemed necessary, but when the boat was pushed ashore at the midday pipe under a beautiful overhanging bank topped with thick woods, the usual vigilance was relaxed somewhat, and the young people were allowed to roam about a little near the boat, with Arthur and Mâtâ to escort them.

They were soon back with the report that the woods were "alive with pigeons" — they could almost knock them down with sticks — and they pleaded hard to be allowed to shoot at least enough for supper. But no. The enemy might be nearer than we imagined, the firing of a gun would betray where we were, and the most prudent thing was to give notice to nobody, friend or foe. So, very reluctantly, they had to come back to the boat without their game.

The next morning brought us to Powell's, at the Butte des Morts. The poor Frenchmen's faces fell when they learned there wasn't a loaf of bread to be had. Our own store, too, was completely exhausted by then. The only substitute we could get was a bag of dark-looking, bitter flour. That was the provision our whole party had to be contented with, and we left the Hillock of the Dead feeling that it had indeed been the grave of our hopes.
