The next morning came up hot and sultry. The mosquitoes, which the rain had held off through the night, now set about making up for lost time and tormenting us without mercy.

After a breakfast that was both uncomfortable and unappetizing, the first question was what we were going to do with ourselves. Our boat was lying underwater at the foot of the hill, halfway up the rapids. The nearest home among the Waubanakees was some miles off, and there was no way of getting to it except by Indian canoe, if some of our present friends and neighbors would be kind enough to bring one for us to use. And even then it was doubtful whether enough boats could be found to carry our whole large party back to Green Bay.

In the middle of these difficult discussions, a whoop came from beyond the hill, which slopes off to the north here at the head of the rapids.

"There is John! That is certainly his voice!" cried more than one of the company.

It was indeed my husband, and in another moment he was among us. No arrival was ever better timed, or more plainly providential.

He had not heard our plans — the unsettled state of the country had kept us from getting word to him — and he had come equipped with a boat to take us back to Fort Winnebago.

Our drying operations, which we had started up again that morning, were cut short in a hurry. Everything was bundled away as fast as it could be, and in an unbelievably short time we had been moved into the other boat, which lay quietly above the Chûte, and were pulling away toward Winnebago Lake.

We had decided to go only as far as the neighborhood of the lake, where the breeze would make the mosquitoes less unbearable, and then stop and make one more try at getting our clothes dry. So when we came to a beautiful high bank near the Little Butte, we stopped for that purpose, unpacked the trunks again, and soon had every bush and twig fluttering with what the cruel waves had left us.

We had barely finished hanging up the last rag and ribbon when we heard horses coming, and then loud shouts and cheers ringing through the woods.

A company of about twenty-five horsemen rode in among us, banners flying, veils streaming from their hats, weapons flashing in the sun, and, between greetings and roars of laughter, wanted to know exactly what had produced the extraordinary mess we were sitting in.

They were Colonel Stambough and Alexander Irwin of Green Bay, with a company of young volunteers and a whooping band of Menomonees behind them, all headed for the seat of the war. We consoled them with the news that by now the victories had all been won and the scalps all taken; but they said they hoped there were still a few laurels left to be picked up, said good-bye, and hurried on their way.

We crossed Lake Winnebago by the clear, lovely light of a summer moon. The soft air was just strong enough to fill the sail and save the men their work at the oars.

Even so, the magic of the hour was not enough to make us give up our sleep after the heat and the annoyances of the day, so we arranged ourselves early to be packed away in the middle of the boat. How it was managed, not one of that large company could have told you. If any accident had upset the arrangement, I am sure it would have been a Chinese puzzle to get us all back into our places. The men on the outside had much the better of it, and we rather envied the ones who were off watch their freedom to snore and shift position whenever the mood took them.

We got to Powell's just in time to have gone ashore and made our breakfast, if we had had anything to make it out of. We had hoped to buy some supplies there, since up to then we had been living on what was left of my husband's generous store. That was so nearly gone by now that when we found the mess-basket could not be refilled at this place, we began talking about putting ourselves on rations.

The wet bread, of which there was still plenty, had, as you can easily imagine, soon fermented under a July sun. The tea, too, in spite of our careful attempts at drying it on newspapers and pieces of board, went musty before long and was no good to anyone. There was literally nothing left except the salted meat and a few crackers, barely enough for that one day.

So the men were urged to make all the speed they could, so that we might reach Gleason's, at Lake Puckaway, in good time the next day.

In the evening, when we stopped to have our tea in a beautiful little opening among the trees, we found our old enemies the mosquitoes worse than ever. We had to put on cloaks and gloves and tie our veils tight around our throats, and only dared slip a cracker or a cup of tea in under this protection in the most furtive way possible.

The men rowed well and brought us to Gleason's about eleven the next morning. We were welcomed with the most enthusiastic demonstrations by my old friend La Grosse Américaine, who had moved here from Bellefontaine.

"Oh, Mrs. Armstrong," we cried, "get us some breakfast — we are starving!"

And then who should turn up but our faithful Mâtâ, driving the old calèche we used for our little excursions around the Fort. He had ridden over hoping to meet us, on the idea that some of us might rather get home that way.

He had thought ahead and brought tea, roasted coffee, fresh butter, eggs and so on, in case we had run short of such luxuries by this stage of the trip.

His "Good-morning, Madame Johns! How do you dos?" was a pleasant and welcome sound.

We could not wait for our breakfast, but gathered around La Grosse Américaine like a lot of children while she cut and buttered slices of bread for us.

After the regular meal was over, it was decided that sister Margaret should take Josette and go back with Mâtâ to open the house and get it ready for us. It had been headquarters for militia, Indians and assorted stragglers while we were away, and it was easy to imagine that a certain amount of "misrule and unreason" might have had its way there in all that time.

We still had seventy-two miles to go, following the winding course of the river, first over the beautiful waters of Lac de Boeuf and then through the low marshy country that spreads out toward the Portage. One of the gentlemen made an attempt at stirring up a little excitement among the ladies as we came near the place where people thought the Sauks might cross on their way to the Chippewa country.

"Who knows," he said, gravely, "but they may be lurking somewhere around here still? If they are, we shall probably get some kind of signal. We must keep on the alert!"

Some of the ladies started to go pale and look around them. After a stretch of perfect silence, a low, drawn-out whistle sounded. There was so much distress, and some real terror, that the mischief-maker had to own up on the spot and take a good scolding for the pain he had caused.

Just before sunset on the second day out from Gleason's, we reached our home. Everything shone with neatness and good order. With the able help of our good Manaigre and his wife, the house had been whitewashed from the roof to the doorsill, thoroughly scrubbed and cleaned, the carpets unpacked and spread on the floors, the furniture put back in place — and, last but not least, a splendid supper was steaming on the table by the time we had made ourselves civilized again.

A great many of our friends from the Fort were there to greet us, and a happier or more thankful party has rarely been gathered anywhere.
