When we walked across the parade, we would sometimes be caught by a tapping on the bars of the dungeon where a criminal was locked up. It was the man who had murdered Lieutenant Foster.

You may remember that this pleasant young officer had traveled with us on our trip up from Chicago the year before. A few months after he got to Fort Howard, he had reason to order a soldier of his company named Doyle into confinement for being drunk. A few days later the man talked the sergeant of the guard into walking him over to Lieutenant Foster's quarters, on the excuse that he wanted a word with him. He went up the stairs to the young officer's room, while the sergeant and another soldier waited at the bottom, near the door.

Doyle went in and said to Lieutenant Foster, "Will you please tell me, lieutenant, what I am confined for?"

"No, sir," the officer answered. "You know perfectly well what you did. Go back to your place of confinement."

The man ran down the stairs, tore the gun out of the sergeant's hands, ran back up, and fired it into Lieutenant Foster's heart.

Foster turned to go into his inner room, but got out only "Ah me!" and fell dead in the doorway.

Doyle had since been tried in a civil court and was now under sentence, waiting to be executed. He was a hardened villain who never showed the slightest regret for what he had done.

One day the commanding officer, Major Clark, sent to ask whether he wanted anything to make himself more comfortable.

"If the Major pleased," he answered, "he should like to have a light and a copy of Byron's Works."

There was some worry that he would find a way to do away with himself before the day of the execution, and to prevent it he was stripped of anything that could be turned into a weapon. His food was brought to him in a wooden bowl, in case he used a piece of broken crockery to kill himself.

One morning he sent the commanding officer a little package as a present. Inside was a strong rope he had made out of strips of his blanket, carefully picked apart, with a big stout spike tied on the end. The message that came with it was that he wished Major Clark to see that if he decided to put an end to himself, he could find the means to do it whatever the Major did about it.

He kept that hardened frame of mind right to the last. As he was being led out for the execution, he noticed, once they were past the gate, a pile of lumber that had recently been brought in to build a new Company warehouse.

"Ah, captain, what are you going to build here?" he asked Captain Scott, who was with him.

"Doyle," his captain answered, "you have only a few moments to live — you had better be thinking about something else."

"That is exactly why I'm asking, captain," he said. "My time is short, so I want to pick up all the information I can while it lasts."
