On the morning of a bright autumn day, word came to the authorities that the chiefs of the nation would present themselves at the Agency and hand over the suspected men as prisoners to the Americans.

At ten o'clock, as we looked out along the Portage road, we could make out a crowd of people on the move. There was brilliant color in it, and glittering weapons, and, as they came nearer, certain white objects of a kind we had never seen before.

General Dodge, Major Plympton, and one or two other officers took their seats with Mr. Kinzie on the platform in front of the door of our house to receive them, while we stationed ourselves at the window, where we could both see and hear.

The procession wound up the hill and came on toward us, marching slowly. It was a grand and solemn sight. First came some of the principal chiefs in their most brilliant dress. Next came the prisoners, all of them dressed in white cotton as a sign of their innocence, with sashes around their waists. The drum and the shee-shee-qua kept time to the death-song they were chanting. They wore no paint and no ornaments, and their faces were grave and thoughtful. It might well be a serious moment for them: they knew very little of the customs of the whites, and what little they did know was not the sort of thing to cheer a man up. Probably nothing but their Father's promise that they would get strict justice would have persuaded them to meet the nation's obligation in this way.

The rest of the procession was a long train of Winnebagoes, all turned out in their holiday clothes.

The chiefs came up and shook hands with the gentlemen, who stood ready to greet them. Then the prisoners came forward and did the same with the officers. When they held out their hands to their Father, he refused them.

"No," he said. "You have come here accused of great crimes — of having helped to take the lives of some of the defenceless settlers. When you have been tried by the laws of the land and proved innocent, then your Father will give you his hand."

They looked graver still at this, as though it meant that their Father believed them guilty too. They stepped back a little and sat down in a row on the ground without speaking, facing their Father and the officers. The other Indians all took seats in a circle around them, except the one-eyed chief Kau-ray-kau-say-kah, the White Crow, who had been appointed to deliver the prisoners to the Agent.

He made a speech. His countrymen denied the charges brought against them, he said, but they were perfectly willing to be tried by the laws of white men. He hoped they would not be held long — that the matter would be looked into soon, and that they would come out of it clear and white.

He was told in reply that everything would be done fairly and impartially, exactly as if the accused were white men, and it was added that we hoped they would be found to have been good and true citizens and peaceful children of their Great Father, the President.

When that was over, White Crow asked leave to pass on the medal he had been given as a mark of friendship by the President. He wanted it to go to his son, who stood beside him, and who had been chosen by the nation to take his place as chief — an office he wanted to resign. The speeches made on that occasion, as Paquette interpreted them, the modest way the young man carried himself, and the father's manner throughout, dignified and full of feeling, made the whole ceremony deeply impressive. When he took the medal from his own neck and hung it around his son's, saying a few fitting words to him, I do not think anyone could have watched unmoved.

All through these ceremonies I had been watching the faces of the prisoners as they sat on the ground in front of me. With one exception they were open and calm, the faces of men who knew they had done nothing. About that one I have to admit there might be reasonable doubt. One of them was remarkably handsome. Another was a boy of certainly not more than seventeen, and during the handing over of the medal he looked from one man to the other, and listened to the speakers, with an air and expression of interest and satisfaction that was almost childlike.

Our hearts ached for them when the ceremonies ended and a file of soldiers marched them off and shut them in the dungeon of the guard-house, to stay there until they should be called before the court appointed to try their case.
