Wau-kaun-kah, the Little Snake, offered himself as a hostage until the suspected men were handed over. The Agent accepted him on those terms, and he was marched across and shut up at the Fort until the seven accused should turn up and buy him out.

It took the nation a little while to talk these suspected men into putting themselves in the hands of the whites so that they could be judged according to white men's law. The trial of Red Bird, and his slow death in prison, were still fresh in their minds, and it took a great deal of resolution, and a strong sense that they had done nothing wrong, to steel them to such a step.

It had to be managed by argument and persuasion, because the nation would never have used force to make anyone carry out their side of the bargain.

Meanwhile a solemn talk was held with the principal chiefs, gathered at the Agency. A large part of the nation was in the immediate neighborhood, having been called there by Governor Porter, who, as Governor of Michigan Territory, was also Superintendent of the Northwest Division of the Indians. Instead of asking the Agent to take charge of the annuity money, which had been the practice until then, the Governor had announced that he meant to bring it to Fort Winnebago himself and be present at the payment. The appointed time had now come, and with it the main body of the Winnebagoes.

The Indians who had not been at the treaty at Rock Island and had had no hand in giving up their country were loud in condemning the whole thing, and loud in their grief over it. The loudest of all was Wild-Cat, the Falstaff of Garlic Island and thereabouts. It was hardly surprising that he should shed bitter tears, as he did, over losing his beautiful home on the blue water of Winnebago Lake.

If he had not been stopped by accident, he said, on his way to the treaty, and held up until it was too late, he would never, never have allowed the bargain to be made.

His Father, who knew perfectly well that the real reason he had failed to go to Rock Island with his countrymen was a wild spree somebody had lured him into on the way, answered gravely that he had heard about the chief's misfortune on that occasion — how, as he was coming up the Fox River, a couple of kegs of whiskey had come floating down the stream and struck his canoe with such force that they damaged it badly, and he had been obliged to stop several days at the Mee-kan to make repairs.

The shouts of laughter that greeted this explanation were so contagious that poor Wild-Cat had to join in himself and treat his misfortune as a joke.

The suspected Indians hired Judge Doty to defend them at their coming trial, and in time word was sent that on a certain day they would be brought to the Portage and handed over to their Father, who would pass them along to the military officer appointed to take charge of them.

This was joyful news to poor Wau-kaun-kah, whose release was at hand. Every time we had been inside the walls of the Fort, we had been hailed by him from his station at the guard-room window:

"Do you hear anything of those Indians? When are they coming, that I may be let out?"

We had tried to make his confinement easier by seeing that he had plenty to eat, and his Father and Paquette had visited him now and then; but for all that attention, and all the kindness he had been shown at the Fort, being locked up was more wearisome to him than words can say.
