The Indians did not scatter once the ceremonies of the surrender were over. They stayed near the Portage, expecting from day to day that the annuity money would arrive — the money they had been called there to receive. But Governor Porter kept putting off the date for setting out on the trip to fetch it, week after week. If he had foreseen all the harm this delay was going to cause, he might have been quicker about keeping his appointment.

A number of things together made an early payment desirable. To begin with, the Winnebagoes had been driven from their homes that year by their anxiety not to look as though they were making common cause with the Sauks, and so had planted no gardens and no corn-fields. That left them with no provisions on hand, either for the moment or for the winter, apart from their thin supplies of wild rice. As that dwindled during their long detention at the Portage, they ran the risk of being left with nothing at all to eat if the hunting went badly through the winter and spring.

Next, the rations the Agent had been allowed by the Government to hand out to them now and then had been cut off, because the Commissary's department had run short. The militia had been called out so often during the summer campaign, and the garrison had been reinforced by the troops from Fort Howard, that the stores at this post were drawn down too far, and supplies had to be issued with the strictest economy.

Mr. Kinzie had seen this coming, and as soon as the war ended he asked Mr. Kercheval, then sutler at Fort Howard, to get him a couple of boat-loads of corn to distribute among the Indians. Unfortunately there was no corn to be had in Michigan, so it had to come from Ohio, and by the time it finally reached Green Bay — in those days nothing was ever done in a hurry — the Fox River had closed to navigation. The corn stayed there, to be brought up the following spring.

As day after day went by and "the silver" still did not appear, their Father advised the Indians to scatter to their hunting-grounds and find food, promising that they would be sent for the moment Governor Porter arrived. They took the advice.

While they were in our neighborhood they had more than once asked leave to dance the scalp-dance in front of our door. It is the most frightful, blood-curdling performance anyone could possibly imagine. The scalps are stretched on little hoops or frames and carried on the ends of slender poles, and these are brandished about through the dance with cries and shouts and furious gestures. The women start out as spectators, but they get worked up by the scene and by the music, which their own discordant voices help to make even more deafening, and then they rush in, snatch the scalps out of the owners' hands, and toss them wildly about, screaming and yelling like demons. I have seen as many as forty or fifty scalps in a single dance. On one occasion a scalp was carried by an Indian who came quite close to me, and I shuddered when I saw the long fair hair — plainly a woman's. Another Indian had the skin of a human hand, stretched and prepared as carefully as if it were some costly jewel. When these dances happened by moonlight, as they sometimes did, they were peculiarly horrible and revolting.
