We had only been home quietly a very short while when a summons came for my husband to gather the principal Winnebago chiefs and meet General Scott and Governor Reynolds at Rock Island, where they meant to hold a treaty for the purchase of all the land east and south of the Wisconsin. So messengers went out to collect the principal men, and, with as many of them as chose to present themselves, he set off on his trip.

He had been gone about two weeks, and I was starting to count the days that had to pass before I could reasonably expect him back, when one afternoon I went over to the Fort to visit my sister. As I came into the big hall of one range of quarters, Lieutenant Lacy came suddenly in from the other end and, hardly slowing down, called out, "Bad news, madam! Have you heard it?"

"No. What is it?"

"The cholera has broken out at Rock Island, and they are dying by five hundred a day. Dr. Finley has just arrived with the news." And with that he was gone, without waiting to answer a single question.

The cholera at Rock Island, and my husband there. I ran to the other door of the hall, the one that looked out on the parade-ground. A sentinel was walking nearby. "Soldier," I called, "would you run to the young officers' quarters and ask Dr. Finley to come here for a moment?"

The man shook his head. He was not allowed to leave his post.

Then Mrs. Lacy's servant-girl came out of a door under the steps. She was a worthless creature, but help was so scarce that ladies could not afford to keep a strict scale of moral qualifications.

"Oh, Catharine," I said, "will you run over and ask Dr. Finley to come here a moment? I must hear what news he has brought from Rock Island." She put on a modest look and said, "I don't like to go to the young officers' quarters."

I was furious at her hypocrisy, and wild with impatience besides, when to my great joy Dr. Finley appeared on his own.

"Where is my husband?" I cried.

"On his way home, madam, safe and sound. He will probably be here tomorrow." Then he told me how badly the cholera was tearing through the troops, which was severe enough, though not as bad as the first rumor had made out.

For all the doctor's assurance that he was safe, my husband did come down with cholera on the journey. Thanks to Paquette's kind nursing, and to all the chicken-broth the poor woman at whose cabin he stopped kept giving him, he soon got over it and reached home safely, having gone by way of Prairie du Chien and brought his mother back with him to her home.

The Indians had agreed to sell their beautiful country. In cases like this there is really no other choice. If they hold on to their land and end up surrounded and hemmed in by white settlers, their situation is worse than if they had given up their homes outright. They know it, and so as a rule they let the land go when the Government proposes it, and only take care to get the best terms they can. This time they were to receive in exchange a tract of land running into the interior of Iowa, and another ten thousand dollars a year.

One of the terms of the treaty was that the Winnebagoes should hand over certain men of their tribe accused of taking part with the Sauks in some of the murders on the frontier, so that they could be tried under our laws and acquitted or punished as the case turned out.
