Every tie poor Agathe had was broken except the one that bound her to her baby. She never went back to her father's lodge, because she felt that, having been deserted, she was dishonored. Her one ambition seemed to be to bring the child up like the children of the whites. She dressed it in the style of the French children, in a frock of bright calico and a cap of the same, trimmed with narrow black lace. It was a fine child, and the only time I ever saw a smile cross her face was when some member of our family praised it and made a fuss over it.

Even this, her one source of happiness, poor Agathe had to give up. While we were away at Green Bay, when the Sauks were in the neighborhood, the child fell violently ill. The house at Paquette's, which was the mother's home, was crowded with Indians, and of course there was a great deal of noise and disturbance. My husband had a place made ready for her under our roof, where she could have quiet and be attended by the post physician. It was all no use — nothing could save the little creature's life. The mother's bitter agony, as she hung over the only treasure she had on earth, was described to me as truly heart-rending. When she was forced to part with it at last, it seemed almost more than human nature could bear. There were friends, not of her own nation or color, who tried to comfort her. Did the father ever spare a thought, or ask a single question, about what became of his child, or of the young creature whose life he had made dark and desolate? We will hope he did — that he repented, and asked pardon from above for the harm he had done.

Agathe had been baptized by M. Mazzuchelli. Perhaps she picked up some religious knowledge that could bring her comfort in her troubles, and make up to her for the hopes and joys that were cut down so early.

Some months after her child died, she came, along with several of the half-breed women of the neighborhood, to pay me a visit of respect and congratulation on the arrival of the young Shaw-nee-aw-kee. When she looked at her "little brother," as he was called, and took his soft, tiny hand in hers, the tears came into her eyes, and she said a few small tender words that showed how full her heart was. I could hardly keep from crying along with her, thinking of all the sorrow and desolation that one man's selfishness had caused.
