My sleep, though, was not going to go undisturbed. At the first faint hint of dawn I was woken by a sound coming from a room below ours — a plaintive, monotonous chant that rose and then fell in a kind of mournful cadence. It sounded to me like the wail of something not of this earth. So wild. So strange. So impossible to account for. I woke my husband in terror, and he reassured me: it was the morning salutation of the Indians to the opening day.

Some Menomonees had been given shelter for the night in the kitchen downstairs, and having carried out their unvarying custom of chanting their morning hymn, they stopped and settled themselves back to sleep. Their listener did not. There was something in that morning song of praise from the untaught sons of the forest that I can only call beautiful beyond expression. And what a sermon it preached to the civilized, Christianized world — where too many of us lie down and get up again without one breath of thanks to the Almighty who preserves us, without so much as a thought for the care of Him who gives His angels charge over us. The impression that simple act of worship made on me has never faded. I have liked to think that for some of them, those strains were the pouring out of a devotion every bit as pure as the Christian's when he says the inspired words of the saintly Ken:

"Awake, my soul! and with the sun," and so on.

Among the visitors who came to welcome me to the West were Mr. and Miss Cadle, who were then taking the first steps of what later became a flourishing enterprise for educating Indian and half-breed children. The schoolhouses and the chapel had not been built yet, but we went to see the site they had chosen and listened with real interest to their bright hopes for the good that was going to be done there — the success that was going to crown their efforts at taming the heathen and teaching them to know their Saviour and the blessings of a civilized life. What followed has shown how little the zeal of a few can accomplish against the greed of the many.
