We now had seventy miles to get through of perfectly monotonous, uninteresting country, made worse by knowing that with horses, or a carriage of any kind, we could have crossed from Gleason's to the Portage through pleasant country in a little over three hours. Even our great standby, the cheering, driving songs of the voyageurs, was out of the question, because the river, deep as it is, runs so narrow that in many places there is no room for the oars to work properly — and Frenchmen can never keep tune unless their oars can keep time. Lapierre, one of our men, did his best with a paddle, or as he called it the "little row," but it was no use. It would not go. On top of that, the wild rice grows so thick in places that it nearly blocks the progress of even a moderate-sized boat, and forcing a passage through those tangled masses with the oars is hard work. Tedious and monotonous as those next two days were, the real peak of impatience and discouragement did not arrive until we came in sight of the white walls of Fort Winnebago, looking down from high ground over the enormous stretch of low country the river winds through.

The Indians have a tradition that a huge serpent once lived in the water of the Mississippi, and that, taking a notion to visit the Great Lakes, he left his trail across the prairies, which collected the water off the meadows and the rain out of heaven as it fell and eventually became the Fox River.

The little lakes along its course were probably the places where he thrashed around in his uneasy sleep at night. And he must have carried on like a kitten in the neighborhood of the Portage. When the fort was first pointed out to me I said, delighted, "Oh, we'll be there in half an hour!"

"Not quite that soon," my husband said, smiling. "Wait and see."

We sat and watched. We seemed to be coming up on the very spot where we were to land. We could make out the officers and a lady standing on the bank waiting to receive us. Then we had our backs to them and were shooting off into the prairie again. Before long we came up on another bank with a row of comfortable-looking log houses on it. "That's the Agency," my husband said. "The biggest house is Paquette's, the interpreter. The others are where our Frenchmen live. The little building at the foot of the hill is the blacksmith's shop the Government keeps there so the Indians can have their guns and traps mended free of charge."

"But aren't we stopping there?"

"No. Don't you see we're going back to the fort?"

And sure enough, our course had turned again and we were headed the way we had started. Tacking right and left and running backward and forward like that for the better part of two hours, we finally came in to the little landing where the whole assembled party stood ready to greet us.
