The woods were brilliant now with all the colors of autumn, and the scene around us was made livelier still by groups of Indians in every direction and by their lodges, scattered here and there near the Agency buildings. Down on the low ground you could see the white tents of the traders, already set up to furnish the Indians with winter supplies in exchange for the annuity money they were just about to receive.

A great crowd had been gathering for days in anticipation of the payment, which was expected to take place as soon as Shaw-nee-aw-kee arrived with the silver.

In advance of it, the great chief of the nation, Four-Legs — whose village we had passed at the entrance to Winnebago Lake — had seen fit to go on a little carouse, as too often happens when the savages come into the neighborhood of a sutler's establishment. In this case the opportunities for a spell of drinking had been increased by the presence on the ground of some traders who paid far too little attention to the very strict laws against selling liquor to the Indians.

Poor Four-Legs could not stand so full a tide of prosperity. With his Father, the agent, not there to check him, he carried his indulgence so far that within a few days it killed him. His funeral had been held with unusual pomp the day before we arrived, and I was greatly disappointed to find myself too late to see all the ceremonies.

Following their custom, his body had been wrapped in a blanket and laid in a rough coffin along with his guns, tomahawk, pipes, and a quantity of tobacco, then carried to the highest point of the hill across from the fort, followed by an immense procession of his people, whooping, beating their drums, howling, and making altogether what is emphatically called a "pow-wow."

After the body was buried, a stake was planted at its head, painted in vermilion with a series of hieroglyphics describing the great deeds and events of his life. The whole was then fenced round with pickets made from the trunks of tamarack trees, and here his friends would come for many days together to renew their expressions of grief and to throw tobacco and other offerings to the Great Spirit over the grave.

It was some consolation to find that, late as we were, we were still in time to supply a quantity of white cotton for a flag to fly over the grave, and also to pay a considerable bill at the sutler's for the various things that had been found necessary for the funeral parade — burying the dead properly being one of the duties expected of their Father.

The observances in honor of the chief were not over yet. All through that day and all that night the sound of instruments, mixed with mournful lamentations and with the discordant whoops and yells of men in a partial state of intoxication, filled the air and broke our rest. To these was sometimes added the plaintive sound of the Indian flute, which a young savage plays when he is in love. Grief and whiskey had made their hearts tender, and the woods rang with their melancholy music.
