Early the next morning, before I had left my room, I was startled by sounds of grief and mourning coming from the room next door. When I went in, I found several squaws sitting on the floor, their faces cast down in condolence and sympathy, and in the middle of them a little, ugly woman in ragged clothes, her face blackened and her hair loose and disordered, sobbing and wailing bitterly.

Not doubting that they were the family of the dead chief, I was quite troubled that I had no way but gestures to show them how much I shared their sorrow.

Knowing nothing of their customs, I took it for granted from their wretched appearance that poverty and destitution were part of what they were suffering. One of them, at least, seemed to be at the very bottom of misery. "Can it possibly be," I said to myself, "that this poor creature has nothing but these few rags to cover her?"

I stepped back into my own room and brought out a pretty calico wrapper, which I presented to the little, dirty, blackened figure. She took it and began a fresh round of sobbing and sighing. I made signs that she should put it on, opening it out and explaining to her how it was to be worn, and urging her by gestures to lose no time in making herself more comfortable.

At this, the other women burst out laughing.

"Very mal-à-propos," I thought, "and rather unfeeling." Then my husband came in and explained that the chief mourner was Madame Four-Legs, the widow; that she undoubtedly had a comfortable wardrobe at home; but that part of the etiquette of mourning is to go about for a season unkempt, with a blackened face. All this was told me between handshakes and condolences offered and received in the most uncouth, guttural language I had ever heard. Their Father finally sent them away with the promise of some presents to help dry their tears. No one should conclude from this that the poor little widow's grief was not sincere. On the contrary, she was deeply attached to her husband, and had had great influence not only with him but with the nation at large. She was a Fox woman and spoke Chippewa, which is the court language among all the tribes, so people often came to her to interpret; in fact she had been in the habit of going with her husband everywhere and helping him with her advice on every occasion. She was a woman of great shrewdness and judgment, and, as I found out later, of strong and lasting affections.
