After breakfast the principal chiefs came to call on me. They had put on their best clothing and their best paint to receive their new mother.

There was Naw-kaw, or Kar-ray-mau-nee, "the Walking Turtle," now the head chief of the nation, a big, powerfully built Indian with a broad, pleasant face whose great peculiarity was an enormous lower lip that hung down nearly to his chin. There was the old Day-kau-ray, the noblest, most dignified, most venerable man of his own tribe or of any other. His fine Roman face, made still more striking by a bald head with one solitary tuft of long silvery hair neatly tied and falling back over his shoulders; his perfectly neat, suitable dress, with almost no ornament on it; and his courteous manner, which he never laid aside under any circumstances — all of it together put him first in the regard of everyone who knew him. It will be seen later on that his character was no less grand and striking than his appearance and his bearing.

There was Black-Wolf, whose lowering, surly face was well described by his name. Its fierce look was much heightened by the masses of heavy black hair hanging round it, quite against the usual fashion among the Winnebagoes. Most of them remove part of their hair, and the rest is drawn to the back of the head, clubbed, and ornamented with beads, ribbons, and cock's feathers — or, if they are entitled to them, an eagle's feather for every scalp taken from an enemy.

There was Talk-English, a remarkably handsome, powerful young Indian, who got his name in the following way. He was one of a party of sixteen Winnebagoes who had gone, by invitation, with their Agent and Major Forsyth (or the Chippewa, as he was called) to visit the President at Washington the year before.

On the trip, the question people unfamiliar with Western Indians naturally put to them was, "Do you talk English?"

The young fellow, who was very observant, came to his Father. "What do they mean by this? Everybody says to me, talk English!"

The Agent translated the words for him. "Ah, very well."

The next place they came to was Lockport, in the State of New York. Jumping off the canal-boat onto the lock, he ran up to the first man he met and thrust his face forward. "Talk Eengeesh?"

"Yes," said the man. "Do you talk English?"

"Ya-as."

From that time on he always went by the name of Talk-English, and it was entered on the pay-rolls as his title — one he was not a little proud of.

Hoo-wau-ne-kah, "the Little Elk," was another of the distinguished men of the tribe. He had been to Washington as well. When Henry Clay visited them, he looked carefully at the faces and bearing of every man in the delegation and picked him out as the one with the greatest ability; and he was much pleased to be told that this was in fact the principal orator of the nation, and decidedly the ablest man in the tribe.

Wild-Cat, our Indian Falstaff in everything but the cowardice and the lying, I have already mentioned.

Then there was Kau-ray-kaw-saw-kaw, "the White Crow," a Rock River Indian, who later distinguished himself as a friend of the whites during the Sauk war. The French called him "le Borgne," because he had lost an eye, and the black silk handkerchief he wore drooping over the left side of his face to hide the blemish, together with his native dress, gave him a very singular appearance.

There was a nephew of the late chief Four-Legs, whom whites and Indians alike had justly nicknamed "the Dandy." When he was not in mourning, his dress was of the most studied and fanciful sort. A shirt (when he condescended to wear one) in the brightest colors, decorated with countless rows of silver brooches set close together; never fewer than two pairs of silver arm-bands; leggings and moccasins embroidered as elaborately as ribbon and porcupine-quills allow; every ornament he could think of hanging from the club of hair at the back of his head; a feather fan in one hand and in the other a mirror, in which he examined himself every five minutes — all this, along with the variety and brilliance of the colors on his face, choosing and applying which took up no small part of the hours he devoted to his toilet, made up the outfit of young Four-Legs.

This devotion to dress and appearance did not seem entirely out of place in a young dandy, but we had an old one of the same stamp as well. Pawnee Blanc, or the White Pawnee, outdid his younger rival, if that was possible, in attention to his personal charms.

On this occasion he arrived in all his finery and went through the usual salutations with an air of solemn dignity; then he walked, as the others did, into the parlor (I had received them in the hall), where they all sat down on the floor. Luckily the room was still bare of furniture. But "alas," I thought, "for my pretty carpet, if this is how they are going to pay their respects to me!" I watched the ashes dropping from their long pipes, and the other inconveniences that come with tobacco, or kin-nee-kin-nick, in absolute dismay.

After the chiefs came the interpreter and his wife, along with all the Canadian and half-breed women whose husbands worked at the Agency or at the American Fur Company's establishment.

By this time my piano had been taken out of its case and set up in our quarters. To our great joy we found it entirely undamaged. Thanks to the skill of Nunns and Clark, not a note was out of tune.

The women, to whom it was a complete novelty, were loud in their exclamations of wonder and delight.

"Eh-h-h! regardez donc! Quelles inventions! Quelles merveilles!" One of them, noticing the reflection of my fingers moving in the nameboard, called out to her companions in great triumph. She had discovered, as she believed, the hidden machinery that produced the sounds, and she was not a little mortified when she was set right.
