Since the boats might be expected in a few days, it seemed best to begin at once on whatever preparations for housekeeping I could manage. These amounted simply to fitting and sewing my carpets, at which Mrs. Twiggs kindly helped me; and since the wife of one of our Frenchmen had come over from the Agency and made everything tidy and comfortable, the carpets were soon tacked down and the rooms were ready to receive the rest of the furniture.

I had made a great many fruitless attempts, in Detroit and again in Green Bay, to get a servant-woman to come with me to my new home. Now and then one would offer herself, but before we could come to a final agreement, the thought of the distance, or of the savages, or of the hardships of the trip, or perhaps the objections of her friends, would break off the negotiation. In the end I had had to content myself with the simple hope my husband held out, that one of his French employés and his wife would be willing to come and live with us.

As things stood, all the difficulties seemed to be cleared away by Major Twiggs's proposal that we take into our service a young colored girl he had brought up from Buffalo in the spring to wait on Mrs. T. until her own servants arrived from the South.

So Louisa was sent for — an uncommonly handsome young negress with an intelligent but very demure face, who said she was fifteen, though from the progress in vice and iniquity I later discovered she had made, she must have been at least several years older. However that may be, she appeared at the time to have no fault but carelessness and inexperience, and I had great hopes she would get the better of both under careful training.

My first week's visit with Mrs. Twiggs had just run out when word came that the boats were in sight — the boats with our furniture. The expected arrival of Louis Philippe to visit Queen Victoria could hardly have caused a greater stir than this announcement did in our little community. Although we knew it must be some hours yet before they could reach the landing place, we were on the watch the whole time, and in the end all the young officers, followed by every soldier who was off duty, went down the bank with Mr. Kinzie to the landing, to watch and, if need be, to help get everything safely ashore.

Things turned out to be in a sad state. The water poured out of the corners of the boxes as they were hoisted onto the bank one after another. Too impatient to wait until they could be carried up to the fort, the gentlemen got themselves hammers and hatchets and fell eagerly to work, opening the boxes to find out how bad the damage was. Alas for the mahogany! There was not a piece whose edges and veneering were not starting away. It all looked as though it had lain for days under the Grande Chûte. Poor Hamilton was loud with his protests and his excuses.

It was the fault of the men, of the weather, of the way the things had been packed. "Confound it! He had taken the best care of the things he possibly could — better care than he had ever taken of anything before — it would get done!"

There was nothing for it but to be patient and make the best of the situation. And when the pretty sideboard and work-table had been thoroughly rubbed down and set up, and all the little knick-knacks arranged on the mantel-piece — when the white curtains were hung at the windows and the chairs and dining-table each stood in its proper place with respect to the piano — our parlor was pronounced "magnificent." Hamilton certainly seemed to think so; he came to have one admiring look at it, and to hear the music of the piano, which was a complete novelty to him. The way he described it to the young officers after he got back to the Bay showed how much it had astonished him: "There it stood on its four legs! Anybody might go up and touch it!"

In good time the dinner- and tea-sets were carefully stowed in the "Davis," along with various jars of sweetmeats I had made up in Detroit; the iron and tin utensils went into a neat kitchen cupboard for which my piano-box supplied the frame; the barrel of eggs and the tubs of butter, brought the whole way from Ohio, were ranged in the store-room; a suitable quantity of salt pork and flour was bought from the commissary; and, since there was no shortage of game of every kind, the offering of our red children, we were ready to begin housekeeping.

The first dinner in her own home is a landmark in a young housekeeper's life. I shall certainly never forget mine. While I was down below supervising my very inexpert little cook, my husband appeared to say that, since the payment — the all-absorbing subject just then — would not begin until the afternoon, he had invited M. Rolette, Mr. Hempstead, and four other gentlemen to dine with us.

"So unexpected — and me so unprepared!"

"Never mind, give them whatever you have. They have been living in tents for days, and anything will taste good to them."

I had meant my dinner to consist chiefly of a venison pasty, and by great good luck the only dish I owned that would do for it was of very large proportions, so that there was already a pie smoking in the oven nearly the size of the famous Norwich pudding. With a few small additions to the bill of fare, we came off very well, and the master of the house had the satisfaction of hearing his six guests praise the impromptu dinner warmly.
