Around this time Mr. Kinzie got a letter from Colonel Richard M. Johnson of Kentucky. The Colonel had taken a great interest in a school set up in that State to educate Indian young men and children. His letter asked the Agent to make every effort to get the Winnebagoes not only to send their children to the school to be educated, but also — and this mattered a good deal more — to set aside part of their annuity money to help keep it running.

As it happened, a number of the chiefs were in the neighborhood of the Portage over the holidays, so a messenger was sent to gather them all at the house of Paquette, the interpreter, where their Father could hold a talk with them.

On the appointed day they all came. The substance of the letter was put before them, and every advantage of civilization and education was set out in full — how much their nation stood to gain if even a small number of the younger members could be properly taught by the whites and then come back to their tribe to pass on the learning, the arts, the manufactures, and the habits of civilized life. At the end of every paragraph, as it was delivered to them, they answered with one voice: "Humph!" (Good!)

When their Father had finished, Day-kau-ray, the oldest and most venerable of the chiefs, stood up and spoke:

"Father, the Great Spirit made the white man and the Indian. He did not make them alike. He gave the white man a heart to love peace and the arts of a quiet life. He taught him to live in towns, to build houses, to make books, to learn everything that would make him happy and prosperous in the way of life laid out for him. To the Native man the Great Spirit gave a different character. He gave him a love of the woods, of a free life, of hunting and fishing, of making war on his enemies and taking scalps. The white man does not live like the Indian — it is not in his nature. And the Indian does not care to live like the white man — the Great Spirit did not make him that way.

"Father, we do not want to do anything against the will of the Great Spirit. If he had made us with white skins and characters like the white men, then we would send our children to this school to be taught like the white children.

"Father, we think that if the Great Spirit had wanted us to be like the whites, he would have made us that way. Since he has not seen fit to do it, we believe he would be displeased with us for trying to make ourselves into something other than what he thought good.

"Father, I have nothing more to say. This is what we think. If we change our minds, we will let you know."

You can see from what Day-kau-ray said that the Indians hold a firm conviction that it is the Great Spirit himself who teaches the white man the arts and sciences, and that since he has given the Native man no instruction in those branches, it would be improper for him to go after them by some irregular route of his own.
