Early in January the snow came down in enormous quantities. We had an unusual amount of it at the Portage, but in "the diggings," as the lead-mining country was called, the depth of it was unheard of — five or six feet on the level.

The officers had sent an express to Chicago to carry our letters and bring back the mail from there. The messenger was a tough, hardy soldier named Sulky, who up to now had made nothing of either the load or the length of the road, even though he did the whole thing on foot with his pack on his shoulders. But this time Sulky had been gone some weeks, and we had given him up altogether, convinced he must have died of cold and starvation.

Eventually he turned up, nearly blind from traveling in the snow. He had lain up three weeks in an Indian lodge, the snow being too deep to let him go on. What he had to tell us put an end to the hopes I had begun to build of getting down to see our friends in Chicago that winter.

Before the last heavy snowfall we had been making plans along exactly those lines. Captain Harney had kindly begun getting some trains ready — boxes set on sledges, which it was thought would make a very comfortable sort of vehicle for the trip once they were lined with buffalo-skins — and I was still inclined to think that a good deep bed of snow over the whole country was no great obstacle to a sleigh-ride. The commanding officer cut the whole thing short, though. He had been violently against the scheme from the start, and he announced that he would order the sentinels to fire on us if we tried to leave the fort. With the majority against us, we had to give way.

The arrival of sweet, lovely little Lizzie Twiggs, before January was quite out, was an event that brought light and joy into at least two households. She seemed to belong to all of us, and as she grew bigger and prettier it was hard to say which of us was proudest of her. Whatever dull hours we might have had before, we could have none now — she was the pet, the darling, the joint property of both houses.

Whatever regret I might have felt beforehand at the thought of leaving my friend for the three weeks we meant to allow ourselves in Chicago, I now felt that she would hardly miss me, and that we could hold ourselves ready to seize on the first break in the weather and put this favorite plan into action.

Through the latter part of February the cold slackened. The snows melted away, and by the beginning of March the weather was so warm and pleasant that we were fully confident of being able to make the trip on horseback without any real difficulty.

Once our plans were settled, the first thing to see to was warm, comfortable clothing. A riding-habit of stout broadcloth was declared indispensable to my outfit. But I did not own such a thing. Nothing among my wedding travelling gear offered anything like a substitute. What was to be done? The material itself could be had in quantity at the sutler's store — the shantee, as it was technically called — but the question was how to get it made up into a suitable garment.

The regimental tailor was sent for. He was cook to one of the companies, and at first there was some doubt whether he could be allowed to leave the spit for the needle for as long as I would need him. Up to then all his tailoring work had been done at odd moments on a bench in the company kitchen, and that was where he now proposed to take the riding-habit. I pointed out that if I were to supervise the work, this would drive me to take up residence in the barracks for the duration, which would be decidedly inconvenient.

To get round the difficulty, he was fortunate enough in the end to find a soldier in Company D who agreed to stand in for him as cook until his term of service to me was over.

So picture a small, solemn-looking man in his stocking-feet, sitting cross-legged on an Indian mat by my parlor window. He had made all the arrangements himself, and I judged it wisest not to interfere with him. The cutting-out was the hardest part, and since he had never made a lady's riding-habit, that job fell to me. I was as much a novice as he was, and I have to admit that this first effort of mine was open to criticism. The little tailor took a different view. He was in ecstasies over our joint production.

"Upon my word, madam," he would exclaim, running an admiring eye over it, "we shall have a very respectable garment!" I could not say how many times he repeated it during the three days the work was going on.

I do not think he had complete confidence in the cooking of his comrade from Company D, because regularly, half an hour before the beat of the drum, his work was folded and set aside, his snips gathered up, and, everything being back in order, he would slip out, put on the shoes he had left outside the door in the Turkish fashion, and hurry over to the barrack kitchen to see how things were getting on.

Meanwhile great preparations were under way downstairs, under the direction of our tidy, brisk little French servant, Mrs. Pillon, wife of one of the engagés, who had replaced the erratic and unmanageable Louisa.

Biscuits were baked. A ham, some tongues, and various pieces of salt pork were boiled. Coffee was roasted and ground, sugar cracked, isinglass cut into pieces of the size needed for a pot of coffee. Cotton bags in a range of sizes had been made up beforehand to hold all these different things, and large skin sacks, which the Canadians call porches, were provided for the bulkier provisions, since our trip was going to be a long one.

The distance from Fort Winnebago to Chicago is not really formidable, it is true, if you take the direct route — but we knew that was impossible at this time of year. The route by Kosh-ko-nong was out of the question: all the Indians were away from their villages for the winter, and with the ice now gone we would have no way of getting across the Rock River there.

That left no choice but to go south to Dixon — or Ogie's Ferry, as it was called then — the only sure means of crossing that broad, fast river. Since this route took us so far out of our direct line that we could not hope to do it in less than six days, we had to make our preparations on that scale.

While the wardrobe and the provisions were being got ready, arrangements were also being made about our retinue and how we would travel.

Mr. Kinzie decided to take only two men with him: Plante and Pierre Roy. Plante was to act as guide, on his own assurance that he knew every mile of the way from the Portage to Ogie's Ferry, and from Ogie's Ferry to Chicago.

The merits of the various saddle-horses were debated and the most suitable one picked out for me. For a while we hesitated between "Le Gris" and "Souris," two much-praised animals belonging to Paquette, the interpreter. In the end, like most of my sex, I was decided by looks and chose "Le Gris." "Souris" was assigned to young Roy, and my own little stumpy pony, "Brunet," was pronounced just the thing for a pack-saddle. My husband rode his own bay horse, "Tom," while Plante, the gayest and proudest of the party, sat astride a fine big animal called "Jerry" that had lately been bought for my use — and with that our cortège was complete.
