The next morning, after a cheerful breakfast at which the Rev. Mr. Kent of Galena joined us, we got ready to move on. I had talked my husband round to carrying on toward Chicago by assuring him that I felt as fresh and bright as I had the day we left home.

There did seem to be some worry, though, that we might have trouble picking up the trail to Hamilton's diggings, which was our next destination.

The directions we were given were certainly vague. We were to follow a particular trail for a certain number of miles, at which point we would come to a crossing where we should turn off, keeping east; after a while that would bring us to a deep trail running straight to Hamilton's. In open country like this there are no landmarks. One rise looks exactly like another, and if you lose your trail there is about as much hope of finding it again as of finding a footpath in the middle of the ocean. And the trail, remember, is not a broad highway. It is a narrow path pressed deep into the ground by the hoofs of the horses the Indians ride single file. It is sunk so far into the sod that covers the prairies that it can be hard to make out even a few rods off.

This was new ground to Mr. Kinzie, whose trips from the Portage to Chicago had always gone by the direct route through Kosh-ko-nong. So he made Mr. Morrison repeat the directions over and over — though Plante, our guide, swaggered and talked big, declaring that he knew every hill and stream and point of woods between that spot and Chicago.

We had not gone many miles, however, before we discovered that Monsieur Plante was completely ignorant of the country, so Mr. Kinzie had to take the lead himself and find the way as best he could from the directions he had been given. But nothing remotely like the promised cross trails appeared, and the path we had started on veered so far from what we knew to be the right direction that in the end we had to give it up altogether.

We rode the whole day long, barely stopping at noon to feed the horses and take a bite ourselves. The ride was about as bleak and dreary as you could imagine. Rolling prairie, with no forest or stream to break it up; hillock after hillock, and at the top of each one we hoped in vain to see a distant fringe of timber. But the same cheerless, endless view met the eye everywhere, its only variation the oblong pits here and there, like giant graves, that marked somebody's unsuccessful search for signs of a lead-mine.

We were so anxious to find our trail again — the weather was turning colder and the wind sharper and more piercing — that we were not tempted off course even when a gaunt prairie-wolf appeared, more than once, looking over the nearest rise and seeming to dare us to come and fight him. The Frenchmen, it is true, would give an instinctive shout and spur their horses on, and the hounds, Kelda and Cora, would tear off after him, but the bourgeois soon called them all back with a warning that we had to keep strictly to the business of getting on. Just before sunset we crossed, with some difficulty, a muddy stream with a thin belt of trees along it that made a tolerable camping-ground, and we were glad to take it, though we had no idea whether we were near the place we were looking for or a long way from it.

We had ridden at least fifty miles since leaving Morrison's, and yet I was aware of very little tiredness. What I did have was a vague uneasiness at the idea of being lost in this wild, cold country, quite unlike anything I had felt before. But my husband's encouraging voice — "Cheer up, wifie, we'll find the trail tomorrow" — was enough to blow all that away.

The men soon had our camp comfortable, in spite of the difficulty of driving tent-pins into frozen ground and the lack of trees big enough to make a roaring fire. The place was a stony side-hill, as they would call it in New England, where such things are common, but we were in no mood to be fussy. So we ate our salt ham and toasted our bread and listened with pleasure to the chatter of our Frenchmen, who could not get over the heroism of "Madame John" in the face of everything that had befallen her.

The wind, already high enough to be uncomfortable at bedtime, got up further during the night. It snowed heavily, and we were in constant dread that the tent would be carried off. That got settled another way: the poles snapped, and the whole thing came down on top of us in a mass with all the snow that had piled on it.

Mr. Kinzie roused his men and led them off into the nearby wood to cut a new set of poles, leaving me to hold the entire weight of it on my shoulders, since my only shelter from the storm was to stay snugly tucked underneath the canvas.

With some trouble they eventually rigged up a sort of support for the tent-covering, and it served well enough until daybreak, when our damp and miserable state made us very glad to get up and hang about the fire until breakfast had been dealt with and the horses were saddled again.

The outlook was not encouraging. All around us was an unbroken sheet of snow. We had no compass, and the air was so thick with driving sleet that half the time it was impossible to tell which way the sun lay. I tied my husband's silk pocket-handkerchief over my veil to shield my face from the wind and the icy particles filling the air, which cut like a razor; but even protected every way circumstances allowed, I suffered intensely from the cold.

We went on mile after mile, going into every point of woods in hopes of coming across at least an Indian wigwam where we could ask for news. Every place was solitary and deserted. There was not so much as the trace of a recent fire to give us hope that another human being was within miles of us.

Then suddenly a shout from the man in front made every heart leap.

"Une clôture! une clôture!" (A fence! a fence!)

It was almost like life coming back to the dead.

We spurred on, and sure enough we could make out a few straggling rails along the top of a rise not far off.

And no music ever sounded so sweet as the crowing of a cock that reached our ears at that moment.
