We followed the line of the fence down the far side of the slope and came on a cluster of log cabins — low, shabby, and unpromising to look at, but the most welcome shelter imaginable from the storm beating down on us.

"Whose cabins are these?" Mr. Kinzie asked a man who was chopping wood at one of the doors.

"Hamilton's," he said, and he stepped up at once to help us down from our horses, hospitality being a thing you simply take for granted in that wild country.

They showed us into the best-looking of the buildings. A big fire was burning in the clay chimney and the room was pleasantly warm, in spite of the gaps beside the doors and windows — gaps many inches wide. A woman in a neat calico dress and a shabby black silk cap trimmed with lace shabbier still got up from her seat beside a kind of bread-trough that was doing duty as a cradle for a fine fat baby. She made room for us at the fire, but she was either too shy or too unaware to offer to take my wrappings and outer defences off me, heavy as they now were with snow.

With my husband's help I managed to get out of them soon enough, and once he had me comfortably settled and well on the way to thawing out after that freezing ride, he left me to go see to his men and the horses.

He was gone a long while, and I expected him to come back with our host. Instead he came back laughing, to tell me that Mr. Hamilton was hesitating to present himself: he did not want someone who had known his family back East to see him living the way he was living now. The feeling must have worn off, though, because he came in before dinner and was introduced to me, and he was every bit as pleasant and polite as Alexander Hamilton's son would naturally be.

The housekeeper — she was the wife of one of the miners — got us a plain, comfortable dinner, and a table as long as the cabin would allow was laid out. The end nearest the fire was set with somewhat better things and rather more delicate food than the rest of it.

A horn was blown, and at that signal ten or twelve miners came in and took their places at the table below us. They were the roughest-looking set of men I have ever laid eyes on, and their language was every bit as rough as they were. They wore hunting-shirts, trousers, and moccasins of deerskin, the shirts fringed with the same along the seams, and each man had a colored belt around his waist with a big hunting-knife stuck in it, which gave the whole company the look of brigands.

Mr. Hamilton was so far above them, and yet every one of them called him "Uncle Billy." I could not help imagining that there was something desperate about these men, something we had to keep sweet with that kind of familiarity. What one of them said afterward only confirmed the feeling. He hung back after the rest of the gang had gone. He had learned that we came from Fort Winnebago, and having informed us that "he was a discharged soldier, and would like to make some inquiries about his old station and comrades," he sat himself down without being asked and began questioning us.

He spoke of his former officers with such bitterness that I felt quite sure he was a deserter, and I rather suspected he had run from the service to get away from some punishment. His face twisted right out of shape when he came to Captain H., whose company he had belonged to. "There is a man in the mines," he said, "who has been in his hands, and if he ever gets a chance to come within shot of him, I guess the captain will remember it. He knows well enough he darsn't set his foot in the diggings. And there's T. isn't much better. Everybody thought it a great pity that fellow's gun snapped when he so nearly had him at Green Bay."

Having got all that off his chest, he marched out, to my great relief.

Mr. Hamilton spent most of the afternoon with us — the storm was raging so hard outside that going on with our journey was out of the question. He gave us a great many pleasant stories and recollections of his early life in New York, and of his adventures since he had come out to the Western wilderness. When he had to leave us for a while, he set us up with some books to pass the time, and the most interesting of them was his father's biography.

If that illustrious man could have foreseen the scene in which his book would one day be read — his own son's home — what would he have felt?

The funniest part of the whole experience was still ahead of us. As evening came on I had been wondering what our chances were for a night's lodging. Our pale, melancholy-looking landlady and her fat baby were plainly the only specimens of the female sex about the place, so there was not much reason to suppose that any of the other cabins held whatever it would take to make us a comfortable bed. And the one we were in offered nothing of the kind to the eye either, except two beds standing against the far wall with no curtains around them. My doubts were settled after a while when I watched our hostess stretch a cord between the two and hang some petticoats and spare clothes over it by way of a partition. Then she invited us to take one of them.

All the preparation I made was to wrap my cloak around me and lie down with my face to the wall. The good people were less ceremonious. From a distance of barely two feet, there was no mistaking the sound of their clothes being not so much "laid aside" as whipped over the partition-wall between us.

Still, our last waking thoughts were nothing but thankfulness for such a comfortable lodging after all the trials and exhaustion we had been through. And even those did not last long, because our eyes shut in sleep very soon.
