We followed the old squaw to her lodge, which was not far off in the woods. I had never been inside an Indian lodge before, though I had sometimes peeked into one of the many that always stood clustered around the Interpreter's house at the Portage.

This one was very nicely arranged. Four sticks of wood laid in a square in the center served as a hearth, and the fire was built inside it, the smoke going out through an opening in the top. The mats the lodge was built of were neat and new, and along the sides, hanging from the poles of the frame, were bags of Indian make holding their dried food and other household treasures. A number of ladles, small kettles, and wooden bowls hung from the cross-poles as well, and dangling from the center on an iron chain was a large kettle with some dark, suspicious-looking substance seething in it over the meager fire. On the floor of the lodge, between the fire and the outer wall, mats were spread, and my husband invited me to sit down on them and make myself comfortable.

The first thing an Indian asks a white man for is bread, of which they are extremely fond, and I knew enough Pottowattamie to understand the timid "pe-qua-zhe-gun choh-kay-go" (I have no bread) with which the squaw opened our conversation once my husband had gone out of the lodge.

I shook my head and tried to get across to her that, far from being able to give her any, I had had no breakfast myself. She understood me, and instantly brought out a bowl, ladled a quantity of Indian potatoes into it from the kettle over the fire, and set it in front of me. I was too hungry to be fastidious, and partly because my appetite was so sharp, no doubt, I found them really delicious.

Two little girls who lived in the lodge sat staring at me with obvious admiration and astonishment, which only grew when I took my little Prayer book out of my pocket and started to read. They had certainly never seen a book before, and it amused me to see how carefully they looked away from me while they questioned their mother about my strange occupation and listened to her answers.

While I was busy at that, I was startled by a sudden "hogh!" The mat hanging over the entrance of the lodge was lifted and an Indian came in with that graceful bound which belongs to them alone. It was the master of the lodge, back from shooting ducks. He was a tall, finely built man with a cheerful, open face, and he listened to what his wife told him in a quiet voice while he took off his gear, in the most unembarrassed, well-bred manner imaginable.

My husband joined us soon after. He had been seeing to the comfort of his horses and helping his men build their fire and pitch their tent, which the rising storm had made rather difficult.

From the Indian he learned that we were in what was called the Big Woods, or "Piché's Grove," after a Frenchman of that name who lived not far from the spot; that the river we had crossed was the Fox River; and that he could guide us to Piché's, from which the road was perfectly plain — or even all the way into Chicago if we would rather. But he said we would do better to stay camped for that day, because there was a storm coming on, and in the meantime he would go shoot some ducks for our dinner and supper. He was accordingly furnished with powder and shot, and set off after game without delay.

When I left home I had put a roll of scarlet ribbon in my pocket, in case a good strong string were wanted. Now I pulled it out, and with the knife that hung around my neck I cut off a couple of yards for each of the little girls. They took it with great delight, and their mother divided each piece in two and tied one to each of the little clubs their hair was knotted into at the temples. They laughed and cried out "Saum!" as they looked at each other, and their mother joined in their mirth — a little unwilling, I thought, to show off her maternal pride in front of a stranger.

The tent being all in order, my husband came for me, and we said goodbye to our friends in the wigwam with grateful hearts.

The storm was raging outside. The trees were bending and cracking all around us, and the air was completely full of wildfowl screaming and quacking as they made their way south ahead of the blast. Our tent was among the trees not far from the river. My husband took me to the bank so I could look for a moment at what we had escaped. The wind was sweeping down out of the north in an absolute hurricane. The water was full of masses of snow and ice dancing along on the torrent, and over it thousands of wildfowl were hurrying, making the woods ring with their deafening clamor.

One hour later and we could not possibly have crossed that stream. There would have been nothing left for us but to stay there and starve in the wilderness. Could we ever be grateful enough to that kind Providence which had brought us safely through such dangers?

The men had cut down an enormous tree and built a fire against it, but the wind shifted so constantly that every five minutes the tent filled up completely with smoke and drove me out into the open for a breath of air. Then I would sit down on one end of the huge log, as close to the fire as I could get, because it was dismally cold. But the wind seemed to be acting on pure caprice: whichever direction I took my seat in, that was exactly the way the smoke and hot ashes came, puffing into my face until I was nearly blind. Neither a veil nor a silk handkerchief was any real protection. I was glad when our hunters came back with a quantity of ducks, which gave me a chance to take my mind off my own sufferings by helping the men pick them and get them ready for our meal.

We borrowed a kettle from our Indian friends. It was not remarkably clean, but we heated a little water in it and scoured it out with prairie hay before we put our birds in, and with a bowl of Indian potatoes, a present from our kind neighbors, we soon had an excellent soup.

Between the cold, the smoke, and the driving ashes and cinders, this was the most uncomfortable afternoon I had spent yet, and I was glad when night came and I could crawl into the tent and cover myself up in the blankets, out of the way of all three of these evils.

The storm raged ten times harder during the night. We kept being startled by the crash of trees falling around us — and who could say that the next one would not come down on us? In spite of how tired we were, we passed an almost sleepless night. When we got up in the morning we were made fully aware of the dangers that had surrounded us. At least fifty trees, giants of the forest, lay flat on the ground within sight of the tent.

When we had eaten our scanty breakfast and were mounted and ready to go, we could hardly thread our way out, so completely was it blocked with the fallen trunks.
