Where the name Chicago comes from is a matter of argument. Some of the Indians trace it to the fitch, or polecat; others to the wild onion that used to grow everywhere in the woods there. But they all agree that the place took its name from an old chief who was drowned in the stream long ago. However carefully tradition has held on to that event, it must have happened a very long time back — which is clear from an old French manuscript General Cass brought over from France.

That paper claims to be a letter from M. de Ligney at Green Bay to M. de Siette among the Illinois, and it is dated as far back as 1726. In it the place is written "Chica-goux." The same spelling turns up in old family letters from the beginning of this century.

When the Indians tell the early history of Chicago, they put it very simply: "The first white man who settled here was a negro."

They meant Jean Baptiste Point-au-Sable, a native of St. Domingo, who found his way out to this remote corner around 1796 and settled down to live among the Indians. There is usually a strong sympathy between those two races, and Jean Baptiste took advantage of his new friends by getting them to believe he had been a "great chief" among the whites. Perhaps he was put out at not being voted a similar honor by the Pottowattamies, because he left the neighborhood and eventually died at Peoria, under the roof of his friend Glamorgan — another St. Domingo negro, who had obtained large Spanish grants in St. Louis and the country around it, and who at one point owned an extensive landed estate.

Point-au-Sable had made some improvements at Chicago, and these were taken over by a Frenchman named Le Mai, who set up trading with the Indians. After a few years Le Mai's place was bought by John Kinzie, Esq., who at that time was living at Bertrand — or Parc aux Vaches, as it was then called — near Niles, in Michigan. Since this gentleman was for nearly twenty years the only white inhabitant of Northern Illinois apart from the military, a few particulars about his early life may be worth giving.
