History of Chicago's Cemeteries
Cook County, Illinois
Genealogy and History
Cemetery History
"In 1847, the "Chicago Cemetery" was laid out on land which in later years
formed a part of the present site of Lincoln Park. It then became known as the "City Cemetery."
In 1865, the city authorities decided to remove the bodies which had been interred on this tract to other cemeteries which had in the meantime been established - Calvary, Rosehill, Oak Woods, Graceland, Jewish, Wunders, and others.
The removals were intended to include the bodies of those soldiers who had died of cholera in 1832 (during the Black Hawk War) which had been hastily buried near the corner of Lake Street and Wabash Avenue, but the bodies thus removed were not properly identified at the time and many bodies were entirely overlooked.
"In later days," says Andreas, "the forgotten graves were often opened
in excavating which has led to much speculation as to whom the disinterred remains belonged." As early as 1849, the Daily Democrat recorded the fact that during the sp
ring freshets "two coffins were seen floating down the river, supposed to have been from some small burying ground on the North Branch." Thus it is seen how difficult
has become the task after these numerous removals of recovering the names and final resting places of the soldiers whose remains are now lying somewhere within the limits of the present County of Cook."
Source: "The roll of honor, containing the names of soldiers, sailors, and marine
s of all the wars of our country who are buried in the cemeteries of Cook county, or the Garden of the dead..." E. R. Lewis, compiler ... Pub. by the authority of the honorable Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois; 1922"]
CEMETERIES - listed in the 1868 Chicago City Guide:
Graceland - Green Bay Road.
German Catholic - Green Bay Road.
Anshe Mayrew - Green Bay Road.
Old City - Green Bay Road.
Rose Hill - Green Bay Road.
Oakwood - Cottage Grove.
CHICAGO CEMETERY HISTORY
"History of Chicago from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time." Vol. 2
(Chicago, Ill.: A. T. Andreas Co., 1885)
Transcribed by ©Donna Walton for Genealogy..Trails; Aug. 2006
Let us turn for a time from the few brief years, crowned with riant life and activity, which have made up the wonderful
past of Chicago, to the other great city where reigns voiceless silence and eternal peace. The virtues and achievements
have been sounded of many how were identified with the city's rapid rise to prosperity; whose very bones have been
crowded from their resting place by the encroachments of the queenly city of their pride and early hopes, to find
anew some distant, still abode, that now again lies almost within sound of her busy, restless life. This chapter
must be limited to a mere recital of facts regarding the burial of the city's dead, for space will not admit for
any extended description of the natural beauties and artificial improvements of the many cemeteries adjacent to
Chicago.
An account of the laying out, by the town authorities of Chicago, in 1835, of two cemeteries - on the North and
South sides respectively, - is given in the first volume of this history. * The northern half of the plat so set
apart on the North Side was used as a place of sepulchure by the Protestants, while the southern portion became
the first Catholic burying ground in the city.
The first Grave-Digger in Chicago was Henry Gherkin,
one of the early settlers.
Henry Gherkin was born in Hanover,
near Bremen, in Prussia, September 15,1757, and educated in Bremen. In 1823, he was married in England, to an English
lady, who died in New York, as also did their three children, of cholera. During the following year, Mr. Gherkin
moved west to Buffalo, where in 1831 he was married to Miss Mary Specher. In 1836 he came to Chicago, where he
was of great use to both Germans and Americans, as an Interpreter. He made a business of grave-digging, and, as
has been said, was the first regular grave-digger in Chicago. In addition to this occupation, Mr. Gherkin was a
market gardener, supplying vessels and steamers on the lake, and was popularly known as "Dutch Henry".
He died in July 1877, at the good old age of ninety years, having ceased to dig graves in 1854.
The first Undertaker in Chicago was an Englishman, named A. J. Bates , and he also owned the first hearse. He was succeeded by the firm of Gavin & Gehr,
one an Irishman and the other a German.
No interments were made in the South side grounds after 1842. About 1847, the city authorities re-interred the
bodies from the South side burying-ground in the Lincoln-park tract, known as Chicago
Cemetery .** The Chicago Cemetery tract contained altogether three thousand one hundred and thirty six burial lots, and
was designated under the old survey, as the "Milliman" tract. By a decision of the Supreme Court, the
city lost the title to the Milliman tract, and, not being able to perfect or obtain the title, the Common Counsel,
in 1865, ordered the vacation of the tract, authorizing lot-owners to exchange their lots for lots in any of the
new cemeteries, of equal size and of their own selection Graceland, Rosehill, and Oakwoods had, at this date been
established.
When the time allowed the city to vacate the tract, (two years) had expired, a special committee, appointed by
the Common Counsil, consisting of Aldermen Woodard, Wicker, and Lawson , made the selection for about two hundred lot-owners who had not made any selection and
could not be found. The committee selected lots, of equal size and in the best obtainable location, in that part
of Oakwoods known as the "Third Division, Section B" where the bodies were re-interred in precisely the
same order as they had been in the Chicago Cemetery. The city holds the title to the whole tract purchased in Oakwoods,
and any of the owners of the so exchanged were given the privilege of obtaining a deed to the new lot upon execution
of a release of the old one. After several years of litigation, the portion of the old Chicago Cemetery included
in the present limits of Lincoln Park passed under the control of the park commissioners. Joseph
H. Ernst , of No. 271 North Avenue, was the sexton of the Chicago Cemetery
for a number of years and had charge of the exhumation of the bodies.
The Rosehill Cemetery Company
was chartered February 11, 1859, the incorporators being William B. Ogden,
Charles G. Hammond, John H. Kinzie, Hiram A. Tucker, Levi D. Boone, Benjamin W. Raymond, Charles V. Dyer, James
H. Reese, John Evans, Jonathan Burr, Levi B. Taft, E.K. Rogers, Robert H. Morford, Andrew T. Sherman, William Turner,
George Schneider, C.H. Diehl, Andrew Nelson, James V.Z. Blaney, Henry Smith, Philo Judson, E.C. Jansen and Francis
H. Benson . Dr. Blaney was the first president of the association. The land bought for the cemetery was five
hundred acres lying six and a half miles north of the city. Improvements were at once begun. The cemetery was dedicated
by the laying of the corner-stone of the chapel with Masonic ceremonies July 28, 1859. M.W.I.A.W. Buck, Grand Master,
officiating. The first interment was of the remains of the Dr. J.W. Ludlam , July 11, 1859.
Rosehill has a magnificent entrance
arch, a capacious receiving vault, and a spacious chapel. A steady flow of clear water is obtained from an artesian
well; a number of artificial lakes have been formed; there are large and handsome greenhouses and conservatories;
the avenues, drives and walks are constructed to be durable and permanent; and the grounds are well tended. About
two hundred and fifty acres of the grounds are thus improved, and the interments up to date number nearly 30,000.
By an amendment to the charter, the company is required to pay ten per cent of all proceeds to a perpetual care
fund, which now amounts to about $35,000. The trustees of this fund are Charles
B. Farwell, Orrington Lunt and Henry F. Lewis. The present officers of the company are Frederick Tuttle, president;
William H. Turner, vice-president and auditor; Van H. Higgins, treasurer; and Joseph Gow ,
secretary and superintendent.
Graceland Cemetery was founded in 1861, by Thomas B. Bryan , who purchased eighty acres of land, five and a half miles from the center of the city,
on rising ridges near the lake shore. Since then, various additions of land have been made, until the cemetery
is larger than any other in the country except Greenwood Cemetery, New York. The first board of mangers was composed
of William B. Ogden, Sidney Sawyer, E.H. Sheldon and George P.A. Healy . The grounds are improved in much the same manner as those at Rosehill --- there being
several natural springs, from which water for irrigation and supplying the artificial lakes and fountains is drawn
by steam pumps. The grounds are superbly ornamented with rare vases, beautifully designed statuary, noble monuments
and handsomely kept walks, terraces and flower beds. The cemetery is reached by steam and street-cars and the lake
shore boulevard drive. There have been 40,000 interments to date. The same charter provision as in the case of
the Rosehill Company, for a perpetual improvement fund, applies to the Graceland Corporation. Ten per cent of the
gross receipts from the sale of lots is set apart, and draws compound interest, and insures the perpetual maintenance
and preservation of the cemetery. The trustees and managers of the fund are William
Blair, J.M. McGennis, Daniel Thompson, Marcus C. Stearns, E.W. Blatchford, Hiram Wheeler, George C. Walker, Jerome
Beecher, Edwin H. Sheldon, A.J. Averill, John DeKoven and Henry W. King. Bryan Lathrop
is the president of the company, and T.E. Patterson
secretary.
Oakwoods Cemetery , already mentioned
in connection with the transfer of the bodies from the old Chicago Cemetery, lies three and a half miles due south
of the city limits. It is reached by the boulevard drives through the North Park, and Illinois Central Hyde Park
trains stop at 67th Street, from whence a broad walk leads to the cemetery entrances. The cemetery was laid out
in 1864, by M. A. Farwell, who at that time, owned one hundred and sixty acres of land, and has since added forty
acres more to the site. The cemetery is conducted entirely upon the lawn plan, and has many beautiful and attractive
features. There are some splendid vistas of waterscape from different points about the four ornamental lakes, and
the lawns are well kept and inviting. Four greenhouses supply flowers for the purpose of decoration, and, portions
of the grounds are shaded by native oaks. Two new lakes and two greenhouses are under process of construction.
There is an artistically constructed house for the use of the superintendent; a chapel 18 X 30 feet in area, and
vault of large capacity. The Soldiers' Home
has a burial plat here and a handsome monument, surrounded by cannon and stacks of balls. There have been 19,000
interments since the cemetery was established. The corporation is subject to the same regulations regarding the
creation of a special maintenance fund as the other cemetery associations. The incorporators were Joseph B. Wells, William B. Egan, Ebenezer Peck, J. Young Scammon, R.K. Swift, and Charles
N. McKubbin . The present officers are Marcus
A. Farwell, president; W.C.D. Grannis, treasurer; George M. Bogue, secretary; and William Dennison , superintendent.
Forest Home Cemetery lies on the
banks of the Desplaines River, four and a half miles west of Chicago, on Madison Street. It is reached by the Chicago
and Western Dummy, and the Chicago & North-Western steam-cars to Oak Park. The cemetery comprises a part of
the beautiful Haase's Park, once a noted pleasure resort. There are now nearly eighty acres under improvement.
The cemetery is provided with an elegant entrance, commodious waiting rooms, a chapel and a vault of sufficient
capacity for all demands. The lawn system of keeping the cemetery was adopted from the start, and its superior
beauty can be seen at a glance. The company is incorporated and has a permanent improvement fund. The officers
of the company are Ferd. Haase, president; E.S. Dreyer, treasurer; Emil
R. Haase, secretary. Mr. Haase founded the cemetery in 1876. The Concordia Church Society bought forty acres of land
near by, facing Madison Street, in 1870, and the grounds are now handsomely improved. There have been about 10,000
interments in both cemeteries. Seven Evangelical Lutheran Churches bury their dead here.
Waldheim Cemetery - Directly opposite
Forest Home Cemetery, to the south, and lying between Harrison and Twelfth streets, on the Desplaines River, is
Waldheim Cemetery. Its distance from the city is four and a half miles. It is owned by a corporation re-organized
in 1881 under the law of 1879, and is subject to the same provisions as to maintenance as the other cemeteries.
The Odd Fellows, Musicans' Union, Sons of Hermann, St. Peter's German Lutheran Church, and other societies, have
burial-plats here. The cemetery is beautified with fine lawns, flowers, shrubbery, and well-kept walks and drives.
There are two ornamental lakes, one containing natural springs, and a system of water-works distributes the water
where needed. The cemetery is, also, well sewered, over 10,000 feet of tile having been laid during the past two
years. There is a neat brick chapel on the grounds, and one of the largest receiving vaults in the country. The
interments number about 15,000 up to date. The officers of the association are: Phillip
Maas, president; Jacob Heissler, vice-president; John Buhler, secretary; John M. Faulhauber, treasurer; and C.
Schwartz, superintendent.
Wonder Cemetery . - A German cemetery
was laid out, near Waldheim, in 1860, at which time it consisted of four and a half acres. It was called "Wonder"
Cemetery, in honor of Henry Wonder, a noted German Lutheran divine. In 1866 it was increased to fourteen and a
half acres. There was no burials here after 1872.
St. Boniface , a German Catholic
Cemetery, consisting of about thirty acres, is located on the Green Bay road, three and a half miles north of the
city.
Calvary Cemetery is the favorite
burial-place of the Irish Catholic Churches. It lies nine miles north of the city near Evanston. It was consecrated
shortly after the date of the opening of Graceland, although prior to this some of the bodies taken from the consecrated
ground in the old Chicago cemetery were re-interred here. The office of the cemetery was formerly located on Franklin
Street, in the city, but it is now at the grounds. The cemetery is a large one, well kept, and beautified by many
costly improvements. The interments number upward of 20,000.
The Hebrew Congregations have
a cemetery five miles north of the city, on the Green Bay road. They formerly had a plat of ground in the Chicago
Cemetery. The Hebrew Benevolent Society established a burial-ground here in 1855. The grounds are high and overlook
the lake, and contain a number of fine monuments. Sinai and Zion congregations have an extensive plat reserved
at Rosehill.
As nearly as can be ascertained, the total number of Chicago's dead buried in cemeteries near the city is one hundred
and fifty thousand.
C. H. Jordan , an old citizen of
Chicago, and to-day one of the oldest undertakers in the city, was born in Piqua, Ohio, in 1826. His father, David J. Jordan , was a prominent dry-goods merchant
of that place, in which business the younger Jordan was trained. He was, however, given a liberal education. After
completing his academic course, he entered Woodward College, at Cincinnati, Ohio, from which institution he graduated
as a member of the class of 1845. Immediately on leaving college, he entered upon a mercantile career in Piqua,
Ohio, afterward connecting himself with a wholesale house in Cincinnati. In these two places he remained for several
years, and, in 1854, he came to Chicago as the general western agent for Crane, Breed & Co. manufacturers of
metallic burial cases. Making this city his headquarters, and carrying a large stock of goods in his store, he
spent some years in traveling, selling and introducing his goods in the West. At the same time, too, he established
himself in the undertaking business, at No. 134 Clark Street, remaining there until he was burned out in the great
fire in October of 1871. Immediately thereafter, he resumed business on the West Side, where he remained until
the summer of 1872, when he removed to No. 112 Clark Street, in the old Exchange Building, the site where now stands
the new Chicago Opera House. His next removal was to No. 114 Monroe Street, where he remained until 1881, when
he removed to his present location. In 1854, when Mr. Jordan came to Chicago, there were but three firms besides
himself in his line of business; these were Wright & McClure, located on LaSalle Street, John Gavin, on Market
Street, and W.T. Woodson, on Washington Street. Of these firms, none are now in existence but a son of Mr. Wright,
of the first mentioned house, who is still in this line of business. It is, no doubt, safe to assert that Mr. Jordan
has officiated in his capacity as undertaker on the occasions of the deaths of more of Chicago's old and leading
citizens than any other funeral director in the city. He was married, in 1845, to Miss
Mary Scott , daughter of William
Scott, formerly president of the First National Bank, of Piqua, Ohio:
and has had two children, one of whom, Scott Jordan ,
is now connected with his father in business.
James Wright was born in England,
in 1816. While young, he emigrated to America, and learned the trade of carpenter and cabinet-maker in this country.
In 1846, he came to Chicago, and soon after reaching this city, formed a partnership with Andrew McClure, under
the firm name and style of McClure & Wright .
This firm succeeded A.J. Bates ,
the first undertaker in Chicago. At Mr. McClure's death, William A. McClure succeeded him, the firm name being Wright & McClure, as a member of the firm, when
the firm name was changed to James Wright & Son. James Wright died on February 16, 1880. To accurate and systematic
business habits he united sterling integrity and rare social gifts. His many friends deplored the loss which they
incurred by his removal to a life upon which he entered without fear. Mr. Wright was married, in 1835, to Annie E. Hood , of this city. Mr.
And Mrs. James Wright had six children, only three of whom survive-George
P., Margaret and Mary.
George P. Wright , who succeeded
his father in business, was born in Philadelphia, on August 11, 1839. In 1864, as has been already said, he entered
into partnership with his father, since whose death he has successfully conducted the business alone. In the same
year of the formation of his partnership with his father, he married Miss Mary
A. Brown , of Beloit, Wis. Five children have been born to them-George
James, Charles P., Clara, Addie and Walter.
Joseph Rogerson is a son of John and Agnes (Parkinson) Rogerson . He was born
in England, in December 1833. At the age of sixteen, he came to the United States, and settled in Chicago. For
ten years he was employed in a carriage-shop. In 1859, he started in business as an undertaker, at No. 115 West
Randolph Street, and was, for a number of years, the only undertaker on the West Side. His success has exceeded
his expectations. He soon purchased the property which he first rented, and now owns real estate in various portions
of the city. In 1857, he married Miss Eliza Daro ,
a native of England, whose parents had come to this country while she was a child. They have had three children,
only one of whom is living-Edward J., born in 1860. He married Miss Fannie Dayton, and is at present engaged in
business with his father. Mr. Rogerson ,
Sr., and his wife have been members of the Baptist Church for more than thirty years. He is a member of Fort Dearborn
Lodge, I.O.O.F., and for four years has been president of the Undertakers' Association. He enjoys the esteem, not
only of his own guild, but of the community at large.
F.H. Hill & Co. - This firm was first organized in 1866, by J.H. Boyd
and F.H. Hilt for the purpose of manufacturing coffins and caskets, and
continued until 1874, when Mr. Boyd
withdrew, and a partnership was formed by F.H. Hill and Mortimer Goff , under the present name. They were first located at Calhoun Place, and then removed to
No. 292 South Franklin Street, and erected a large brick building, which was destroyed in the great fire of 1871,
and partly re-built and running within thirty days after. The building they now occupy is 105 by 120 feet, and
has an area of about 120,000 square feet. During the first year of their business they employed about ten hands,
and their gross sales amounted to about $15,000, while last year they gave employment to about one hundred and
fifty hands, and their sales amounted to over $300,000. They are among the largest houses in their line of trade
in the West, and are an important factor in Chicago's industries.
Francis H. Hill was born in Canal
Dover, Tuscarawas Co., Ohio, in 1835, and is the son of Edmund and Mary (Rupp) Hill. At an early age he went to
Pittsburgh, Penn., where he received a good common-school education. After completing his studies he learned the
cabinet business, and was employed in it until 1864, when he became associated with Mr. Algeo in the manufacture
of coffins, under the name of Algeo & Hill. This continued for six months, when a joint-stock company was formed,
the business being carried on until 1866, when Mr. Hill came to Chicago, and during that year permanently settled
here. He soon became associated with Mr. Boyd in the manufacture of coffins, and continued with him until 1874,
when the firm changed to the present style of F.H. Hill & Co. Mr. Hill was married in Columbus, Ohio, to Miss
Caroline Griffith of that city,
in 1856.
* See Vol. 1 page 163
** As a matter of interest in this connection it may be mentioned that Thomas
B. Bryan secured the South-side tract and sub-divided it into lots, the
principal street being Calument Avenue. On every deed of lots along this street, Mr. Bryan incorporated a provision
that the houses should be built one hundred feet back from the street line.
BACK -- HOME
© Copyright
Kim Torp&Genealogy Trails
