Free Records for Researching Ancestry in Cook County, Illinois
Cook County, Illinois
Genealogy and History
Welcome to this
Cook County, Illinois
Genealogy Trails Website
Our goal at G.T. is to help you track your
ancestors through time by transcribing genealogical and historical data
and placing it
online for the free use of all researchers who are trying to research
their family trees.
If you have a love for history, a desire to help others, and basic webpage-making
skills, consider joining us!
Get the details on our Volunteer
Page .
[A desire to transcribe data is required and knowledge of how to make a basic webpage
is helpful]
We
regret that we are unable to do personal research for anyone.
All data we come across will be added to this site.
We thank you for visiting and hope you'll come back again to view the updates we
make to this site
Happy Trails to you on your quest for your
ancestors.
History
Chicago was incorporated as a town in 1833
"COOK COUNTY, situated in the northeastern section of the State, bordering on Lake Michigan, and being the most easterly of the second tier of counties south of the Wisconsin State line. It has an area of 890 square miles; population (1890), 1,191,922; (1900), 1,838,735; county-seat, Chicago. The county was organized in 1831, having originally embraced the counties of Du Page, Will, Lake, McHenry and Iroquois, in addition to its present territorial limits. It was named in honor of Daniel Pope Cook, a distinguished
Representative of Illinois in Congress." (Historical Encylopedia of Illinois,
1901)
City of Chicago History
"Little is known about the Chicago area from 1700 until about 1779 when the pioneer settler of Chicago, Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, from Sainte-Domingue (Haiti), built the first permanent settlement at the mouth of the river just east of the present Michigan Avenue Bridge on the north bank....Du Sable, who appears to have been a man of good taste and refinement, was a husbandman, a carpenter, a cooper, a miller, and probably a distiller. In Du Sable's home, which he shared with his Indian
wife, the first marriage in Chicago was performed, the first election was held, and the
first court handed down justice. The religion of the first Chicagoan was Catholic and
every contemporary report about Du Sable describes him as a man of substance who started
the story of Chicago as well as the story of the African American in Chicago." [Source:
A.T. Andreas "History of Chicago from the Earliest Period to the Present Time"
Chicago, 1884]
DuSable and his wife had two children, a boy named
after his father, and a girl named Suzanna, whose birth is considered the first recorded
birth in the Chicago area. Today a plaque marks the site in Chicago where his home stood,
a high school in the city was named in his honor, and a memorial society exists to revere
his memory. DuSable died at St. Charles, Missouri.
The first white settler in Chicago was purported to
be Quebec-born John Kinzie, an Indian trader. He established Kinzie's Trading Post in
1804, close to the Chicago River or Lake Michigan.
[Read about the American
Fur Company and Chicago ]
COOK COUNTY DATA
Biographies
Birth
Records
Cemeteries
Census
Records
Church
Histories / Records
Cities and Towns
City
Directories
County
Records
Death
Records
Events
Family Bibles and
Records
History
Topics
Maps
Marriage
Records
Military
Records
Miscellaneous
Data
News
Gleanings
Obituaries
and Death Notices
School Records
Vital Records
Wills
Website
Updates
March 2026: Court News for LAMBERT
Divorce News for HOLLANDER, WHITNEY, ANDREWS
Crime News for DUVAL, QUEVIT, WEBSTER, BOBBINS, MACKIN
Fire News for CASTELLO, PEDOTIL
Obituaries for HUNTER, BIPPER, CONNETT
Marriage News for FAUST-KASPER, FROELSEN-BECKER, DAMKO-SHORMAN, KRITZBERG-BAILEN, WHALEN-RITT
Marriage Licenses Grant in 1912
Sick List News for WALTER, GOODE
PREVIOUS UPDATES
Societies
& Associations
Cook
Co. Libraries
Family
History Centers in Northern Illinois
Where
to Write for Records
IRAD
Information
Available Records for Cook County
SEARCH
OUR SITES
Submit
an Obituary to Us
for any of our county sites.
Email Us
Join our
Midwest Genealogy Trails
GTMailing
List
to get email notices when our county sites are updated.
Adjacent GenealogyTrails Counties
[ McHenry
County ]
-- [ Kane County ]
[ Will
County ]
[ Dupage
County ]
-- [ Lake
County ]
Visit the Illinois
GTState Page
Visit our National
Genealogy Trails Site
All data on
this website is
© Copyright
by Genealogy Trails
with full
rights reserved for original submitters.
Copyright © Kim Torp and Genealogy Trails 1998-2024
All Rights Reserved
This website and its contents in the format presented, except where
otherwise noted on the page, are copyrighted by Kimberly Torp and may not be copied, altered, converted nor uploaded
to any electronic system or BBS, nor linked from any "pay-for-view" site, linked in such a manner as
to appear to be part of another site including "frame" capturing, nor included in any software collection
or print collection of any type without the express written permission of the author of
this site.
Information is furnished for the free use of researchers who are interested for the purpose of researching their
family histories and genealogies. However, copying & pasting the information presented here onto another website
is prohibited! This website is considered to be a compilation of facts, and is therefore covered under current
copyright laws.
