Marriage Announcements in Chicago and Cook County, IL
Cook County, Illinois
Genealogy and History
Marriage News
The First Wedding in Chicago
The Old Settler's Reunion - The Oration by Hon. G. O. Barnes
"The first wedding ever celebrated in Chicago was Col. Hamilton's, a son of the great federalist, who was stationed at Fort Dearborn, where Chicago now stands. Chicago had not been born then, nor for seven years after. Col. Hamilton wanted to marry a daughter of the commander of the fort, Col. McKinzie, and the old Colonel was willing, and what was of greater importance the girl was willing. "But true love never did run smoothly" and Col. Hamilton and his
would be bride had their troubles. There was no clergyman, justice of the peace, or other
person authorized to solemnize marriage within 200 miles of where Chicago now stands, and
the nearest place that a license could be had was at Fulton county down southwest of
Peoria. There were no stages much less railroads. The young folks as usual were "just dying" to get married all winter. Along in May a party of gentlemen from Fulton county started to explore the country north of Chicago, and up to Green
Bay, Wis. Among them was that old pioneer, John Hamlin of Peoria, lately gone to his rest. He then lived in Fulton county and was a justice of the peace. The young folks long watching for someone to make them happy, found Hamlin, and they wanted his help, in fact were anxious
about it. But there was no license, and there was a law in force imposing a $1000 fine for joining a couple in marriage without a license. The bride's father was willing to risk it. But Squire Hamlin refused; he was afraid of the fine. So it was agreed that Hamlin should go on to Green Bay, and on his return should stop, and in the meantime a messenger should go to Fulton county, 200 miles away, and get the license. Hamlin started north with his party, and a messenger started for
Fulton county. Hamlin got back to Chicago and was the guest of Col. McKinzie for a week
before the messenger got back from Fulton county. But the license came at last and I am
real glad to tell these interested and attentive young people that the marriage then
immediately took place." [Taken From the Henry Republican, August 25, 1881 - source #25]
ATHERTON - BUCKLEY
Thinnest Man Weds
The thinnest man in the world was married recently by Municipal Judge John R. Newcomer at the city hall. "I had to look three times to see him," said the judge. The man is Arthur Atherton, twenty-four years old. Though five feet high, he weighs only thirty-eight pounds. He married Blanche Buckley, nineteen years old, who weighs 136 pounds. - Chicago Daily News. [The Pickens Sentinel (Pickens, S. C.), September 28, 1911, page 3]
BANFIELD - PENNEY
Lord Douglas Banfield of Manchester, Eng., and Mrs. Alice N. Penney of Chicago, a divorcee of only three days, eloped to Crown Point, Ind., and were married by the Rev. Mr. Billman of the Presbyterian church. [The Keota News. (Keota, Weld County, Colo.), 22 Nov. 1912; pg 7]
BLACKWELL - HARMAN
Carl Blackwell of Chicago, IL and Marie Harman of Chicago, IL. were united in Holy Marriage 22 Aug 1925 at Chicago by John Bedinger, Judge of the County Court of DeWitt County, Clinton, IL. [Source: Original scanned death certificate submitted by Teresa Holcomb]
BORDEN - STILLWELL
Married, John Borden, 41, Chicago capitalist and Arctic explorer, to Mrs. Courtney
Letts Stillwell, 28; in Washington, D. C. They both obtained divorces within the past
year. [Time Magazine, Monday,
Mar. 23, 1925, contrib. by K. T.]
BRADLEY - SKINNER
Married, At Dunton, Cook Co., at the M.E. Parsonage, by Rev. Thos. R. Satterfield, Mr. Timothy F. Bradley and Miss Ellen J. Skinner, all of Dunton. [Chicago Tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 04 Sep 1868, p4]
BROWN (Outcault?) - FILER
Buster Brown Plans To Wed -- Original Of Famous Cartoon Comedies Takes License To Marry Miss Filer
Chicago, Feb. 3 - Buster Brown is going to get married. Richard Felton Outcault, a son of the famous comic sheet artist, and the original from which the artist fashioned his Buster Brown, secured a license yesterday to wed Miss Margaret Filer of Oak Park. Young Outcault served the air in the war. [Rochester Daily Post and Record (Rochester, MN), February 3, 1920, page 1]
CAMADY - MEYER
Colored Man Weds a Blonde
VANCOUVER, Wash., Oct. 9 - (Special) A wedding occurred in Vancouver this afternoon, Justice Arthur Haine officiating,
which was remarkable in one respect. The groom, E. D. Camady, aged 27, is a colored man, very dark, while the bride,
Miss Lena Meyer, aged 26, is a handsome blonde American girl. Both parties were richly and fashionably dressed,
and gave their residence as Chicago. [The Morning Oregonian (Portland,
OR) - Friday, October 10, 1902 - Sub. by FoFG]
CARTON - WELLS
Invitations have been issued for the marriage of Miss Mildred Wells, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Wells, 3800 Michigan avenue, to Alfred Thomas Carton on Thursday evening, Dec. 1, in the
First Presbyterian Church. Miss Ruth Brainard of Hartford, Conn., will be maid of honor and the bridesmaids
will be Miss Harriette Low of Brooklyn, N. Y., Miss Mabel Dick, Miss Irene Wilson and
Miss Ruth Felton. Laurence
Roberts Carton, brother of the bridegroom, will be best man and the ushers will be Bradford Wells and Douglas Stuart
of Chicago, Dumont Clarke Jr. of Dumont, N. J., J. Shepard Shedden of Plattsburg, N.Y., Lawrence L. Tweedy
of Plainfield, N. J.., and Childs Frick, Alfred Ely Jr. and Thomas Hardenbergh Jr. of New
York. [The Chicago Record-Herald, Wednesday, November 16, 1910]
COHEN - KURTZON
Cousins Marry Here. Well Known Hardware Manufacturer of Chicago, Marries His Cousin
Charles Cohen, one of the best known hardware manufacturers in Chicago and his cousin Miss Etta Kurtzon, also of Chicago, were quietly married in Kenosha on Tuesday afternoon and later in the day they returned to Chicago to announce their marriage to their friends in that city.
Mr. Cohen and Miss Kurtzon are widely known in Chicago and the announcement of the marriage will come as a great surprise to their friends. Mr. and Mrs. Cohen could not have been married in Illinois on account of their kinship. [Kenosha News (Kenosha, Wis) 21 Aug 1907, pg 1; tr by KT]
COLES - ROBERTS
Edward COLES, late Governor of Illinois, and Sally Logan ROBERTS, daughter of Hugh ROBERTS, of Pine Grove, near Philadelphia, were married Nov. 28 by the Rev. Dr. Delancy. [National Intelligencer, Dec. 2, 1833]
CROW - PURPLE
Thursday, Dec. 9. at 230 Dearborn av., by the Rev. Brooke Herford, William J. Crow and Alice J. Purple, both of Chicago. [Source: Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, IL) December 12, 1880, p6]
CUDAHY - COCHRAN
Mrs. Eleanor Cochran, Edward Cudahy Marry
Milwaukeeans are hearing with interest of the marriage Tuesday of Edward A. Cudahy of
Chicago and Mrs. Eleanore Brush Cochran, Chicago, which took place at the Glen Head, Long
Island (N.Y.) home of Mr. Cudahy's brother-in-law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. John C.
Stearns. Ushering at his cousin's nuptials was Richard Cudahy, son of Michael Cudahy, E.
Wyoming pl. Present at the wedding were Mr. Cudahy's sons, Anthony and Edward, jr., and
the former Mrs. Cochran's daughters, Nancy and Mrs. Louis Lee Hemingway. Also in
attendance were Mr. and Mrs. Giorgio Pellegrini, newlyweds of last October. Mrs.
Pellegrini is the former Sheila Cudahy. After a honeymoon in Arizona, Mr. and Mrs. Cudahy
will live at Mr. Cudahy's apartment on Lake View av., Chicago. [The Milwaukee Journal, 27
Jan 1944]
CURTISS - FRY
Married, In this city, Aug 23, by Rev. R. W. Patterson, Mr. J.W. Curtiss and Miss Emma F. Fry, all of Chicago, residence of the bride's mother, by Rev. E.J. Goodspeed, Mr. Joseph G. Peters and Miss Anna M. Bradley. [Chicago Tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 04 Sep 1868, p4]
DAMKO - SHORMAN
Marriage: May 25, Andrew Damko and Jennie Shorman, Father A. Evers officiating. [Chicago Examiner (Chicago, IL) Wednesday, June 12, 1912; p17; sub by Rose Stout]
DANVERS - GIVENS
Bernard Danvers and Ellen Givens married in Mineral Point the 21st --groom from Chicago,
bride from Mineral Point --- 23 Aug 1860 ["Home Intelligencer" [Mineral Point, WI.] ]
DAVENPORT - CHURCHILL
At Chicago, on the 13th, by the Rev. L. Hitchcock, Mr. Joseph B. Davenport, of Ottawa, to
Miss Caroline M. Churchill, of Chicago. [The Ottawa Free Trader.(Ottawa, Ill.), December
22, 1843]
DAVIES - SULLIVAN
Announcement cards received here bear the information of the marriage of Francis Burns Davies and Miss Nora Sullivan. The date of the event was Tuesday, November 26th, and they will be at home at 612 North Fifth Street, Maywood, Ill., where Mr. Davis has been a resident since leaving Lombardville, the long-time home of his father’s family. His many friends will wish for himself and bride best wishes for a long and happy wedded life. [The Bradford Republican (Bradford, IL) December 4, 1907]
De BONNEVILLE - DODGE
Married At Chicago, Aug. 2, Prof. De Bonneville, of Detroit, to Miriam C. Dodge, of
Chicago. [New-York Daily Tribune.(New-York [N.Y.]), August 25, 1843]
DE CISNEROS - KELLEY
Mr. and Mrs. William V. Kelley, 4849 Ellis avenue, celebrated their sixteenth wedding
anniversary on Monday. It is Mr. Kelly's custom to send his wife every year on the day of the anniversary
a shower of white roses and lilies of the valley, a duplicate of the bouquet she carried when she was a bride,
and Mrs. Kelley, after enjoying it herself for one day, sends it on to some friend the following day. Yesterday
morning she read in The Record-Herald that the Count and Countess de Cisneros of the Chicago Grand Opera Company
had celebrated their tenth anniversary on the same day Mr. and Mrs. Kelley had observed their sixteenth, and Mrs.
Kelley sent her bridal shower to the countess. [The Chicago Record-Herald,
Wednesday, November 16, 1910]
DENNSTEDT - REPPART
Mr. Lowell Dennstedt, son of Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Dennstedt, of Hankinson, was married on Saturday, Sept. 7th, to Miss Mary Reppart, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Cowlins, of Chicago, IL. The wedding took place at a Methodist Church in Chicago, Rev. R. D. Stone officiating. The bridal couple left Sunday morning for Minneapolis, by auto where they visited the former's brother-in-law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. John Schuda, and brother, Clarence. They arrived in Hankinson last Wednesday to visit the
groom's parents. Mr. and Mrs. Dennstedt will leave Friday morning for Chicago where they will make their home. Mr. Lowell Dennstedt is employed in the Swift Packing Plant in Chicago.[Hankinson News, September 19, 1929]
DONNELL - WRIGHT
Married in Chicago
Married, in Chicago, Wednesday evening, March 8, by Rev. Dr. Crane, Mr. Edward Donnell of Chicago, and Miss Ada Wright, formerly of Champaign. The bride wore a beautiful rose silk, lace trimmings, and carried bride's roses. Only a few intimate friends of the contracting parties were present. The bride is a sister of Mrs. L. C. Smith, of this city, and will be remembered as a charming young woman who made friends with all whom she met. For the past six years she has had charge of the boys in an Orphans' Home in Chicago. They will be at home to their friends after April 1 in Chicago. These young people have the best wishes of hosts of friends in Champaign. [The Champaign Daily Gazette, 13 Mar 1899, p5; tr by GTHOSTKT]
EDMONSTONE - FIELD
Married. Gwendolin Marshall Field, granddaughter and heiress of the late Marshall
Field of Chicago, to Archibald Charles Edmondstone, son of Sir Archibald Edmonstone, in London. Earl Beatty, First
Lord of the Admiralty, gave the bride away, in the absence of her brother, who is ill. The groom's father presented
the couple with the ancient castle of Duntreath in Stirlingshire, near Glasgow. [Time
Magazine, Saturday, Apr. 14, 1923, contrib. by Src #6]
ENGLISH - ENGLISH
Arthur ENGLISH and Mrs. Lucy B. ENGLISH, of Chicago, were married at Bloomington the other day. They were divorced several years ago, but recently became reconciled. Mrs. ENGLISH is the daughter of Kate TEMPLE, and first married an Iowa man, who left her a widow. She then married a Chicago lawyer, but secured a divorce from him. Then she married ENGLISH, was divorced, and is again married to him. [The Ava Advertiser, Ava, Jackson County, Illinois... Friday, October 24, 1890]
FAUST - KASPER
April 19, 1913 - Nicola J. Faust and Lillian Kasper. Father E. P. O'Connor officiating. [Chicago Examiner (Chicago, IL) Tuesday, May 20, 1913; p13; sub. by Rose Stout]
FENWICK - BRUMSEY
Wedded: We received the announcement of the marriage in Chicago on Tuesday, June 16, of Miss Nancy Brumsey to George Elmer
Fenwick. Both parties to this interesting announcement are well known and highly respected here. Miss Brumsey the
bride, who has become Mrs. Fenwick, has spent her entire life in this vicinity. She is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. James H. Brumsey, her father departing this life in this city a couple of years ago. Mr. Fenwick came here
some three or four years ago and has been here more or less of his time since. He has been careful in his friendships
and associations and has won much regard and esteem. We wish the happy couple joy of each other, a long, happy
prosperous and useful life. Our announcement reads they will be at home to their friends
after Sept. 1 [Henry Republican, Henry, IL June 24, 1915 - Sub. by Src #25]
FIELD - BROWN FIELD
Remarried. Stanley Field, 49, nephew of the late Marshall Field, to Mrs. Sara Carroll
Brown Field; in Chicago. Since their divorce over a year ago (when he charged wilful and persistent desertion),
their son and two daughters have sought the reconciliation. Mr. Field is President of the Field Museum, Chicago,
which was provided with an endowment and building fund of $10,000,000 by his uncle,
Marshall Field. [Time Magazine, July 21, 1924, contrib. by K. T]
FROEMLING - BUSSE
Wedded In German Style
Quaint Ceremony Makes Miss Martha Busse A Bride.
Customs of Fatherland Observed in Celebration of Her Marriage to Albert F. Froemling -- More than 1,000 Guests Present, Including Members of County Board and Prosperous Farmers Living in the Vicinity of Her Father's Residence.
Miss Martha Busse, the 18 year old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Busse, Mount Prospect, was married yesterday noon to Albert F. Froemling, a prosperous farmer of Elk Grove. Every feature of the German Lutheran wedding celebration was included in the day's program, from the breakfast of German sausage, beer, and cheese, to the revelry and dancing in the open pavilion in the evening.
Guests were present from Chicago and the surrounding townships of Schaumberg, Maine, Wheeling, Hanover, Barrington, Palatine, and from Du Page county. They comprised 1,000 influential and wealthy farmers of the vicinity and prominent county officials.
After the breakfast, which was served on the lawn under a canopy laden with autumn leaves and bright decorations, the whole company, led by the Elk Grove band and the bridal party, proceeded to St. John's Lutheran church, where the ceremony was performed by the Rev. Julius Drexler. The Lohengrin wedding march was played by the band.
Procession Is Picturesque.
The procession in carriages to and from the church, over the dust covered roads and through the rich farm lands, was a novel sight. Every horse and carriage was adorned with long colored streamers, bright and variegated. Each coachman received a cigar and a bottle of German wine, the latter decorated with bright ribbons.
Following the wedding came the big dinner of eight courses, served on the lawn. In the menu wee included all the dishes of the fatherland, and food was there in abundance. The meats, the sauerkraut, and the two kinds of wine fro Germany all contributed to the enjoyment of the many guests. Nearby was an arbor, where the brimming stein frequently was lifted to hundred of lips in a "gesundheit" to the bride and groom. There was beer for all, and more, too. Then, out near the melon patches, was a pavilion
built for the occasion, where the folks danced all night, to the music of a Chicago orchestra. The German custom of giving the whole floor to the newly married couple for the first dance was observed.
Presents Many and Costly.
Many costly presents were given, the board of county commissioners adding a solid silver table set to the list. The couple will reside in a new home, a gift from the parents of the young people.
During the afternoon the couple went to see the wife of ex-County Commissioner Christian Busse. She is 83 years old, and could not go to the wedding. The father of the bride is a county commissioner, who was elected for his third term last fall. The Busse family came to Mount Prospect in 1848.
Among the guests were Senator Humphrey, Representatives Pierson and Struckman, Assessor W. H. Weber, Coroner F. M. Hoffman, William McClaren of the public service, and President Brundage, Commissioners Strassheim, Boeber, Walker, Carolan, Van Steenberg, Hawtrey, Olson, Garner, and Mack, and Secretary W. C. Groves of the county board.[Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, Illinois) October 6, 1905; Submitted by Source #96]
FROELSEN - BECKER
April 23, 1913: Martin Froelsen and Victoria Becker. Father E. P. O'Connor officiating. [Source: Chicago Examiner (Chicago, IL) Tuesday, May 20, 1913; p13; sub. by Rose Stout]
GARDNER - BRUCKHEIT
Tuscola: Mr. James Gardner, of this city, and Mrs. Minnie Bruckheit, of Chicago, were married on Sunday last. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill.) 01 Nov 1891, p11; tr by KT]
GREEN - HUNTER
At the residence of the bride's parents, 447 West Lake st., Thursday evening, Dec. 18th, by the Rev. A. E. Kittredge, Mr. Charles S. Green and Miss Daisy K. Hunt, all of Chicago. [Source: Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, IL) December 12, 1880, p6]
GRIGOR - RUDOLF
Married, In this city, Sept 2, by Rev. Canon Street, M.A., Thomas S. Grigor, Esq., of Chicago and Helen S., daughter of Michael Rudolf, Esq., formerly of Halifax, N.S. [Chicago Tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 04 Sep 1868, p4]
HAMON - ROHRER
MRS. JAKE HAMON IS AGAIN A BRIDE
Chicago, Dec. 31.- Mrs. Georgia Hamon, widow of Jake W. Hamon, the slain Oklahoma oil man, was today married to William L. Rohrer, a Chicago broker. [Sheridan Post (Sheridan, WY) January 1, 1922, page 1]
HAMMERSTEIN - DALTON
Married. Dorothy Dalton, 28, cinema actress, to Arthur Hammerstein, 51, thrice-divorced
son of the late Oscar Hammerstein; in Chicago, by one Rabbi Hirshfield. Miss Dalton was divorced from Lew Cody
in 1915. [Time Magazine, Monday, May 5, 1924, contrib. by K. T.]
HOUGH - LORD
Announcement is made of the marriage of Miss Florence Lord, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Daniel M. Lord of the Chicago Beach Hotel, to Will M. Hough, the Librettist, which took place Saturday evening
in the study at Lincoln Center, Jenkin Lloyd Jones officiating. Owing to the illness of the bride's mother the
wedding was a quiet one. Mr. and Mrs. Hough left immediately after the ceremony for
Asheville, N. C. [The Chicago Record-Herald, Wednesday, November 16, 1910?]
HOWARD - LEITER
Miss Marguerite Hyde ("Daisy") Leiter, the youngest daughter of the late Levi Z. Leiter and Mrs. Mary T. Carver Leiter, of Chicago, was married at Washington D. C., to Henry Molyneaux Paget Howard the nineteenth Earl of Suffolk and Berkshire. [Willmar Tribune (Willmar, MN), January 4, 1905, p 2; Sub by Src #211]
HULSE - HOPEWELL
Married on His Death Bed
Chicago, December 24: A. P. Hulse, chief clerk of the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern railroad, died at the Wellington Hotel this afternoon of aneurism of the heart. A particularly sad feature of the demise was the death bed marriage of the deceased to Miss Olie Hopewell, of St. Louis. Their wedding had been arranged for Jan. 1, but realizing he could not survive, the nuptials were hastened and took place a few days since. Mr. Hulse had also been connected with the Burlington road and the Traffic Association at St. Louis. [The River Press [Fort Benton, MT] 2 Jan 1895]
HUNT (OSTENHEIMER) - ______?
Vere V. HUNT, a Chicago lawyer, has embraced Judaism, taking the name of Israel Isaac OSTENHEIMER. He will marry a Jewess. [The Ava Advertiser, Ava, Jackson County, IL Friday, September 26, 1890]
HYNDSHAW - WALKER
Silver Wedding, April 19, 1883 - Twenty-five years ago, April 12, 1858, in the city
of Henry, at what is known as the "Underwood" House and long occupied by Mr. Ed. Kline
(now occupied by Mr. Duncan Campbell) a wedding occurred with S. C. Hyndshaw and Miss
Lizzie Walker as contracting parties, Rev. Mr. Morse, pastor of the Congregational church
officiating. The "silver wedding" or 25th anniversary was duly celebrated at their
residence in Norwood Park, 10 miles from this city and a peculiar feature of the affair
was the large attendance of friends, former residents of Henry, most of whom had known
the candidates for "silver honors" for nearly the entire quarter of a century and some
for even a longer time. Those in attendance were, and first of all to be mentioned,
Grandfather Hyndshaw, 82 years of age, while the junior attendant was a Hoosier baby,
three months old, daughter of Mrs. Walker (wife of Chas. Walker, brother of Mrs.
Hyndshaw). Major A. V. Brown and wife came up from Clinton, Indiana; Mr. and Mrs. J. P.
Hummer, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kauffman, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Parker and Mrs. Judge Williams
(sister of Mr. Hyndshaw) and daughters, Miss Morton and Miss Williams, all from the city;
while Wm. Everett and wife came from Grand Crossing; Mrs. Ferguson, Hattie and Theekly
Hoyt from South Park; Miss Forrest; Sophie, the daughter, now Mrs. Bushnell, came from
Council Bluffs, Iowa, while the son Frank Hyndshaw, now a man in size and age, came from
Arlington, Nebraska, to aid in celebrating the event.
The train bearing the people from the city arrived at Norwood before noon, and the guests
were cordially received and escorted to the residence, where a day of unalloyed pleasure
was enjoyed by all in friendly, social methods, the long residence of most of the party
in Henry giving ample scope for working in recollections and incidents in which all had
common interest at some time. Time had dealt kindly with the 25 years wedded ones:
Mr. Hyndshaw looks, acts and talks much as he did 20 years ago, while Mrs. Hyndshaw
might have readily passed as celebrating her first, rather than 25th anniversary, but for
the telltale "silver hair" which, however is no longer suggestive of age, since it is
demanded by fashion. They have been blessed in their children, two; Sophie, the daughter,
will celebrate next Christmas her 5th anniversary as a wife and ranks with any as an
accomplished, noble woman, while Frank is a young man of good habits and business
abilities of a fair order. An elegant lunch was served at two o'clock every detail
of which was supervised by Mrs. Bushnell, and every article provoking some new need of
praise. After this came the "feast of reason," the first-course being served by
Miss Julia H. Johnson of Peoria the article consisting of a original poem, the beauty of
which was somewhat marred by being poorly read by this correspondent.
The wedded pair were duly remembered by the friends in the bestowal of suitable gifts,
useful and valuable, but mostly valuable in representing a friendship beyond the power of
estimate by any other standard of valuation but its own. An afternoon train brought the
Henry party to the city, while the evening was given to a reception of the friends and
neighbors of Mr. and Mrs. Hyndshaw, citizens of Norwood Park, who unitedly carried on at
night the day's work begun by the others. The former Henry residents voted to hold a
Henry picnic at South Park in May and this event will be looked forward to with much
anticipation of a good time. S.P., Chicago, April 14, 1883 [The Henry Republican, Henry, IL, April 19, 1883]
JACKSON - PLOWS
Wednesday, Dec. 8, at the residence of the bride's parents, Lake Zurich, Ill., Mr. George T. Jackson, of Chicago, and Miss Amy Plows. Will make their future home at No.2012 Wabash av., and be at home to their friends after Dec. 15. [Source: Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, IL) December 12, 1880, p6]
JOHNSON - BUGBEE
Elisha L. Johnson, of Cattaraugus, was married to Mrs. Emily J. Bugbee, of Evanston, Ill., Thursday, at the residence of the bride's daughter, Mrs. Henry Hughes, of Glendale, O. They will reside in Cattaraugus. [The Olean Democrat (Olean, NY) 04 Jul 1889, p11]
JOHNSON - DICKINSON
Married - In LaSalle, by the Rev. Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Sanford Johnson, of Chicago, to Miss
Caroline Dickinson, of LaSalle, daughter of Mr. James Dickinson [The Ottawa Free
Trader.(Ottawa, Ill.), December 22, 1843]
JONES - HAVENS
Dr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Havens of Lake Forest announce the engagement of their daughter,
Elizabeth Wing Havens, to Rev. Walter C. Jones.
KANDIK - ?
From a private letter we learn that our friend, Frank Kandik, of 1894 Milwaukee Ave.,
Chicago, committed matrimony last week Wednesday, and is now out on his honeymoon. If the Kandik farm in the town
of Colby had not been sold we might expect a visit from Frank and his bride. Never mind sending us a cigar Frank,
we will smoke on you when we come down. The Phonograph extends congratulations. [Source:
Colby Phonograph (Colby, Clark County, Wis.) Thursday, 20 May 1909 Sub by Src #181]
KELLER - MORE
On Thursday, July 19th, 1906, at the home of the bride's parents in Polo occurred the
marriage of Miss Faith More, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Moreto Charles Lincoln Keller
of Chicago. The ceremony took place at noon and was performed by the Rev. Kirby S.
Miller, brother-in-law of the groom. The Episcopal service was used, the bride's father
giving her away. Littie Kirby, Dorothy and Carl Miller attended the bridal party, Dorothy
holding the bride's bouquet. The bride's gown was of white Canton embroidered silk with
Duchesse lace. The wedding breakfast was served to forty-four relatives and friends of
the bride and groom. The guests from out of town were Miss Keller, Mr. and Mrs. Bar
num, Messrs, Edmund and Richard Barnum, Miss Scribner, Mr. Mackay, Mr. and Mrs. Atkinson,
Mr. and Mrs. Marsh of Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Annis, Mr. and Mrs. T. N. Holden, Mr.
and Mrs. Alec Forsyth and Miss Forsyth, Mrs. Taylor More, Mrs. Kendall, Mrs. Belde of
Aurora; Mrs. John M. Siddall of New York, Mrs. R. H. Gibboney, Robert Gibboney, Miss
Marjorie Gibboney, of Rockford: O. B. Dodge of Dixon, W. B. McKinley of Washington, D.
C., Miss Helen Noble, of Lanark, John E. More of Grand Rapids, Michigan and Geo. F. More
of Denver. Mr. and Mrs. Keller left at 7 p.m. for an extended tour in the west, to
California and Alaska. They will make their home in Chicago. [unknown newspaper, c. July
1906 - Sub. by Karen Fyock]
"French Fred" - KESSLER
About two years ago a daughter of Peter KESSLER, a Chicago merchant, eloped with "French Fred", a somewhat noted character. They were married in Canada, but when she found that he already had a wife, she left him and procured a divorce. He subsequently returned and got a divorce, and now the runaway pair are again married. In the meantime she has inherited a part of her father's estate, valued at $85,000, and her latest move is to get possession of it. [28 March, 1888 "The Newton
Press" Jasper County, IL Newspaper - Sub. by source #23]
KING - MORRISON
Married, At the Second Baptist Church in Chicago, June 20th, by Rev. E. J. Goodspeed,
Philo R. King, formerly of Martinsburgh, and Minnie A. Morrison. No cards. [The
Journal And Republican (Lowville, NY) - Wednesday, June 29, 1870]
KLUESSNER - OLSEN
Norman Kluessner and Edna Olsen Married Saturday
Norman Kluessner, son of Mr. And Mrs. H. A. Kluessner, 603 Marengo avenue, and Miss Edna Olsen,
5909 Augusta boulevard, Austin, were married last Saturday evening, July 11, at 7:30 o'clock, in St. Peter's Evangelical
Lutheran church, by Rev. W. F. Buch. The maid of honor was Miss Jeanette Duerrstein and best man was Harry Rowe.
The bridal reception took place at Brums' Palm Garden. The William Kluessners of Cincinnati came here for the wedding.
Wm. Kluessner is a brother of the groom. (Forest Park Review (Forest
Park, Illinois) July 17, 1936 - submitted by src #96)
KOSTA - MCFALL
Martin Kosta, the Austrian refugee, who resides in Chicago, was married to Mrs. Lucinda
McFall, of that city, on the 12th inst. [Daily Illinois State Journal (Springfield, IL) 
Saturday, December 30, 1854]
KRITZBERG - BAILEN
Marriage: May 26, Frank Kritzberg and Bessie Bailen, the Rev. Harry Isaacson officiating. [Chicago Examiner Chicago, IL) Wednesday, June 12, 1912 p17; sub by Rose Stout]
KRUEGER - MARQUARDT
Mr. Wm. H. Krueger, of Chicago, and Miss Millie Marquardt, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Ferd. Marquardt, of Green Grove, were married at Chicago, May 19th, and arrived in Green Grove on the 20th for
a visit. They will visit Mr. Krueger's parents in Manitowoc on their return, and will be
at
home at 1158 Rockwell
St., Chicago, after June 10th. Millie's many friends in this city extend to them their
congratulations. [Source: Colby Phonograph (Colby, Clark County, Wis.) Thursday, 29 May 1902 Sub
by Src #181]
LINEBERGER - AMLING
Maywood Girl Is Bride
Mrs. Clarence Lineberger Jr. is the former Norma Amling, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Otto H. Amling of Maywood. Both
she and Mr. Lineberger attended Northwestern university where she was graduated last
June. -- [Chicago Daily Tribune - October 27, 1940 - submitted by src #96]
LITTELL - DAMROSCH
Married. Miss Anita Damrosch, daughter of Walter Damrosch, famed conductor of the
New York Symphony Orchestra, to Robert Littell, one of the editors of The New Republic; in Manhattan, on her 21st
birthday. Granddaughter of James G. Elaine (of Maine), she is niece of Anita McCormick
Blaine of Chicago. [Time Magazine, Monday, Nov. 17, 1924, contrib. by K. Torp]
LITTLE - CARTER
The marriage of Mr N. D. Little and Miss May Carter occurred Tuesday evening at the residence of the bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. Carter. The marriage service was performed by the Rev. Dr. Bolton, and witnessed only by the family of each contracting party. The young couple will be "at home" to their friends after Feb. 25, at Woodlawn. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill) 17 Feb 1889, p16]
LUMSDEN - PHILLIPS
In Logansport, Ind., on the eve of Dec. 1, by the Rev. A. W. Hawkins, Mr. James Lumsden, Head master of the P.C. & St. Louis R. R., and Mrs. D. Phillips, both of Chicago. [Source: Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, IL) December 12, 1880, p6]
MAACK - KUKURA
Mr. and Mrs. Allan Kukura, 5013 Paulina st., announce the recent marriage of their daughter, Sophie, to Howard Maack, son of Mrs. and the late Herman W. Maack, 7713 Winchester ave. The ceremony was performed at St. Mary church, 4950 Paulina st. Florence Lasky attended the bride as maid of honor while Marie Maack and Emily Powlowski served as bridesmaids. The former Miss Kukura wore white marquisette with a long veil and carried the traditional bridal bouquet. Miss Lasky was gowned in orchid marquisette with yellow
roses, and the bridesmaids, who carried pink roses, wore yellow marquisette. Richard Hoelzer served the bridegroom as best man and the bride's brother, John, served as an altar boy at the nuptial mass, after which breakfast was served for the immediate families in the bride's home. A reception was held later for 30 guests in the home of the bridegroom. The couple took a short honeymoon trip and are now at home in their own apartment at 5013 Paulina st. Mr. Maack was graduated at St. Leo high school. [Suburbanite
Economist, (Chicago, Illinois) September 8, 1943; submitted by src #96]
MADDEN - BREESE
Married: At the Windsor House, in this city, on Tuesday evening, September 7th, 1880,
by Rev. D. M. Moore, Miss Cora Breese, of this city (Hutchinson, KS) and Mr. F. M.
Madden, of Chicago. [Hutchinson News (Weekly), Hutchinson, Reno County, Kansas, Thursday,
September 9, 1880 - Sub by Src #192]
MCBRIDE - SEELY
Floyd McBride, son of Mr. and Mrs. D.L. McBride of 204 Hitt St., was married today
in Chicago to Miss Tress Seely. The bride is the daughter of W.S. Seely of Chicago. Mr. McBride is a member of
the clothing firm of Sykes & McBride of Blytheville, Ark., where he has been for the last four yrs.
He left Columbus 9 yrs ago and was in business in Popular Bluff, MO. for 5 yrs. the couple will make their home
in Blytheville. They will take their wedding trip along the Great Lakes. [The
Columbia Evening Missouri, Sept 4, 1920 - Transcribed by Nancy Mayo]
McCORMICK - ELLIOTT
Ottawa: Robert N. McCormick, a young attorney from Peoria, and Miss Adele M. Elliott, of Chicago, were married here at the residence of Mrs. L. A. Rose, sister of the bride, on Wednesday, the Rev. J. H. Edwards, of the Episcopal Church, officiating. The young couple left the same day for Peoria. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill.) 01 Nov 1891, p11]
McLAUGHLIN - TREMAN
Married. Mrs. Irene Castle Treman, dancer, 29, to Major Frederic McLaughlin, 45,
coffee merchant, formerly Captain of the Onwentsia Club polo team, in Chicago. [Time
Magazine, Monday, Dec. 10, 1923, contrib. by Src #6]
MITCHELL - RAY
Yesterday afternoon at 2:30, at the First Baptist parsonage, Harry H. Mitchell, formerly of Chicago, and Miss Edyth Ray, of Danville, Ill., were married by Rev. M. Ashby Jones. They will reside in Augusta. [The Atlanta Constitution (Atlanta, Georgia) 09 Oct 1914, p4]
MONTGOMERY - McCLELLAND
Married Nov. 14, in Chicago, at the residence of J. P. Winebrenner, by Rev. A. X.
Shoemaker, Mr. R. R. Montgomery, of this city, and Miss Lida McClelland, of Chicago
[Decatur Republican, Decatur, IL November 14, 1867]
MORRIS - SWIFT
Miss SWIFT, daughter of G. F. SWIFT, and Edward MORRIS, son of Nelson MORRIS, were
married in Chicago. The affectionate fathers are wealthy porkers, the wealth of the
father of the groom being estimated at $20,000,000 and the father of the bride at
$10,000,000. [The Ava Advertiser, Ava, Jackson County, Illinois... Friday, October 10,
1890]
O'GRADY - BOWER
Double Blessedness: New Year's day, 6 p.m., at the M. E. church parsonage in Sparland, Miss Jessie M. Bower and John M. O'Grady of Chicago were married, Rev. Bower, father of the bride, assisted by Rev. Smith from Lacon, performing the marriage ceremony, which was appropriate and very impressive. The guests embraced only the members of the family. Mr. O'Grady is a young man of unusually fine business qualifications and at present he hold the position of correspondent in the general purchasing agent's
office of the C. B. & Q. R. R. at Chicago. On Wednesday morning the newly wedded pair embarked for their future home in Chicago. They carry with them the best wishes of a host of friends, many of whom will never forget the generous, kind, sympathizing and loving heart of her who once was Jessie Bower. [The Henry Republican, Henry IL, January 3, 1884]
OPPENHEIMER - SCHWAB
A pretty family wedding took place Tuesday evening at 7 o'clock, at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. S. Mandel, No. 3206 Michigan avenue. The bride was Miss Addie Schwab, sister of Mrs. Mandel, the groom, Mr. Maurice Oppenheimer. The Rev. Dr. Hirsch performed the marriage service. Later in the evening Mr. and Mrs. Oppenheimer left for a tour through the East, after which they will go to their future home in Cleveland. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill) 17 Feb 1889, p16]
OSER - McCORMICK
Married. Mathilde McCormick, 18, daughter of Harold F. and Edith Rockefeller McCormick
of Chicago, to Major Guillaume Max Oser, 45, of Basle, Switzerland, in London. [Time
Magazine, Saturday, Apr. 21, 1923, contrib. by Src #6]
NO FOOL LIKE A YOUNG FOOL
Sixteen-Year-Old American Girl Preparing to Marry a Fifty-Seven-Year Old Swiss
Chicago, Feb. 20. - Mathilde McCormick, sixteen years old, today had permission from her father, Harold F. McCormick, to marry Max Oser, a riding academy proprietor of Zurich, Switzerland. McCormick announced the engagement last night. The romance of John D. Rockefeller's young granddaughter is pictured by Emil Burgy, a Chicago interior decorator, who says he is a first cousin of Oser, as the love of spring and winter. "Oser is not three times Miss McCormick's age, as the newspapers have
stated," Burgy said. "He is older. He is fifty-seven years old, not forty-seven. He is just my age. I am his cousin and I should know." [The Ocala Evening Star (Ocala, FL) 20 Feb 1922, p 1. Tr. by HEH]
OSIK - STEVENS
Miss Arlene A. Stevens, daughter of Mrs. Charles M. Stevens of Tiskilwa, was married to Charles J. Osik, of Chicago, Wednesday evening, June 19th. The ceremony was performed by Rev. R. M. Laurenson, rector of St. Jude's Episcopal Church, Tiskilwa, at eight o'clock, at the home of the bride's mother in that village. The bride is one of the most popular young women of south Bureau County. Tiskilwa has always been her home, except during the time she was attending St. Mary's College at Knoxville, and the year
or more after her graduation, which she spent in travel.
Rector Laurenson used the beautiful ring service of the Episcopal Church, and the sweetly solemn service was witnessed by a large company of invited guests. The bride was handsomely attired in a gown of white and carried a bouquet of lilies of the valley. Refreshments were served in four courses, and each guest was given a dainty little box, in which was found a portion of the wedding cake. Mr. and Mrs. Osik left for Chicago the following morning, where they will reside and will be at home to their
friends at 999 East Garfield Boulevard after September 11th. [The Bradford Republican, Bradford, IL, June 27, 1907]
PELLEGRINI - CUDAHY
Tell Engagement of Sheila Cudahy, Visiting in Chicago
Of interest in Milwaukee, where she has relatives and friends, is the announcement of the
engagement of Miss Sheila Cudahy, daughter of Edward A. Cudahy of Chicago and Mackinac
island, to Giorgio Pellegrini of New York City. Now visiting in Chicago, Sheila will join
her father on Mackinac island the middle of July. Her fiance will visit them this summer.
The young people met while studying for their Ph.D. degrees at Columbia university in New
York. The bride-elect, whose mother was the late Margaret Carry Cudahy, attended the
Foxcroft school, Bryn Mawr college, Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Barnard college, New York City.
She made her debut during the Christmas holidays of 1939 at a ball at the Blackstone
hotel, Chicago, and two days later, on New Year's eve, her uncles and aunts, the Vaughan
C. Spaldings and the Frank E. Wilhelms, gave a dinner-dance for her at the Shoreacres
club. Her fiance was educated in Rome, Italy, and was admitted to the bar after taking
his doctor's degree in Milan. After a year of study at Oxford university, England, he
came to Columbia university. [The Milwaukee Journal, 24 Jun 1943; Sub. by Mary Dutcher]
PETTIGREW - SMITH
Married. Ex-Senator Richard F. Pettigrew, 75, to Mrs. Roberta Smith, 50., of Chicago,
at New York. The marriage took place last February, but was not announced until recently " for personal reasons."
Said Mrs. Pettigrew: "So long as people are talking so much, I guess we may as well
tell it." [Time Magazine,Monday, Jun 25, 1923, contrib. by Src #6]
POLLACK - SCHAN
Guests Poisoned
Chicago, Jan. 16- Nearly a hundred guests, who assembled to witness the wedding of Morris Pollack and Annie Schan,
were poisoned during dinner which followed the wedding ceremony. In less than half an hour after dinner nearly
every one in the hall was in a helpless condition. What article of food contained the poison no one has yet been
able to learn, but the most popular belief is that it was the chicken which had been
prepared in a copper kettle. [Cambridge-Jeffersonian
Newspaper, Jan. 18, 1900 - Submitted
by Src #108]
QUISENBERRY - JONES
FORMAN (ND) NEWS.... In an attractive and impressive wedding service, which took place at 4 o'clock, the afternoon of June 28th at Bend Chapel, Univ. of Chicago, Miss Jennie Ruth Jones, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. David J. Jones, Forman, became the bride of Ray Woolfork Quisenberry, son of Mrs. A. G. Quisenberry, Hinton, WV. After a short honeymoon in the Northwoods of Wisconsin, Mr. and Mrs. Quisenberry will be at home in their apartment at Berwyn Hotel, Berwyn, IL. [Hankinson News, July 18, 1929]
RAUM - COPLEY
Married, at the residence of the bride's father, Mr. Ira B. Copley, on Lake street, Wednesday morning, Jan. 18, the Rev. William Windsor officiating, Miss Rae Copley was married to Mr. Daniel F. Raum, of Peoria. Miss Copley has quite a reputation as an elecutionist and comes from one of the best families in the city. They will reside in Peoria. [The Daily Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill) 21 Jan 1888, p9]
RICKMAN - MAACK
Bride Wears White French Organdy for Wedding
Gowned in white French organdy, the former Margaret Florence Maack, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry W, Maack, 6349
Washtenaw ave, became the bride recently of Howard Edward Rickman in a wedding ceremony performed in the Julia
Gay Methodist church. The bride and groom, who is the son of Mrs. Elizabeth Rickman, 6537 Winchester ave., repeated
their vows after the Rev. John Paul Stafford. Attending the bride were Ida Mae Maack, Margery Maack, Myrla Rickman
and Margaret Swanson. Best man was Edward Mohrman. Ushers were Ralph Rickman and Albert Maack. After the wedding
ceremony a reception was held in the church parlors. In the evening a dinner for friends and relatives of the bride
was held in the home of the bride's parents. Returned from a honeymoon trip to Kentucky and Tennessee, the newlyweds
are at home at 6537 Winchester ave. (Southtown Economist (Chicago,
Illinois) July 21, 1940 -- submitted by src #96)
ROCKEFELLER - MARK
Married. Avery Rockefeller, 20, son of Percy A. Rockefeller of Manhattan, to Miss
Anna Mark, daughter of Clayton Mark of Chicago; secretly, a year ago. [Time
Magazine, Monday, Dec. 15, 1924, contrib. by K. Torp]
ROGERS - POWERS
Married at Brookfield, on the 30th inst., at the residence of Mr. Maxon, by the Rev. George Marsh, Mr. Shubael M. Rogers of Ottawa to Miss Lucy M. Powers of Grundy Co. [The Ottawa Free Trader (Ottawa, IL) November 5, 1853; tr by NPK]
SANDVOSS - AMLING
Mr. and Mrs. Otto H. Amling of Maywood announce the engagement of their daughter,
Flora, to Henry G. Sandvoss Jr. Miss Amling is a student at Northwestern University and Mr. Sandvoss attended the
University of Illinois. (Chicago Daily Tribune, January 23, 1934--
submitted by src #96)
SCHNEIDER - KIRK
Miss Susie Kirk, daughter of Mrs. John B. Kirk of Evanston, was married to Hugo Heinrich
Schneider of New York city last night at 8 o'clock in St. Mark's Episcopal Church, Archdeacon Toll officiating.
Miss Donna Eberhart of South Bend, Ind., was maid of honor and Edward Filbert was
best man. The ushers
were Raymond Kirk, brother of the bride; Fred Connor, Charles Pyncheon and Wallace Kirk. The church services was
followed by a small reception at the home of the bride's brother-in-law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Champlin,
814 Colfax street, Evanston. The bride's gown was of white satin trimmed in hand embroidery and bands of
beads. Her tulle veil was fastened with a wreath of orange blossoms and she carried a shower of white orchids
and lilies of the valley. The maid of honor wore pale pink marquisette over pink satin and carried an arm
bouquet of Killarney roses. Mr. and Mrs. Schneider will spend their honeymoon in the South and Cuba and will
be at home after Jan. 1 at 460 Riverside drive, New York City. [The
Chicago Record-Herald, Wednesday, November 16, 1910]
SCHOLOSS - NICHALS
Warsaw Ind., January 3: Mrs. Mina Scholoss, of North Buffalo Street, has announced the marriage of her son, Myron T. Scholoss, of Chicago, and Miss Margaret Nichals, also of Chicago, the wedding taking place on New Year's Day. Rabbi T. Schanfurber, of Chicago, who is a son-in-law of Marcus Phillipson, of this city, performed the marriage rites in the presence of a number of guests. The bridegroom graduated from the Warsaw High School about ten years ago. [Fort Wayne News Sentinel - December 31, 1919; Tr by: Frances
Cooley]
SHOCKEY - HARDWICK
Miss Ella Hardwick of Gravett was married at Fort Smith recently, the groom being Joe Shockey of Chicago, who has charge of some public work at Fort Smith. [Source: The Springdale News. (Springdale, Ark.) October 05, 1917, p3]
SHORRIS - BALABAN
ENGAGEMENTS : Bess Ann Balaban, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Balaban, 1511 South Keeler avenue, to Merwyn Shorris, son of Mr. and Mrs. Max Shorris, 349 South Springfield avenue. The wedding will take place May 30. [Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, Illinois) March 29, 1936; submitted by src #96)]
SMITH - SLYFIELD
Galena, Ill., Sept 15 - Miss Gertrude Slyfield, daughter of Andrew Slyfield of this city, and W. Kirby Smith, of Chicago, were married here this evening, Rev. S.J. Yundt, of Grace Episcopal Church, officiating. The bridegroom is a son of Col. Alfred Smith, of the United States army and a grandson of the late Maj. Gen. John E. Smith, of Chicago, and also of the late Dr. E.D. Kittoe, of Galena, staff surgeon to Gen. Grant during the war. [St. Louis Globe-Democrat (St. Louis, MO) 16 Sep 1897, p6]
SOHLBERG - WITKOWER
In Chicago, Anna Witkower, a chambermaid at the Palmer house, has become the wife of Baron Sohlberg, a millionaire Austrian nobleman. [The Aitkin Age (Aitkin, MN) July 22, 1893, page 2]
SOPER - FISH
Married at Chicago, April 28, by Rev. M. Adron of Evaston, Hugh D. Soper of Westville,
Ind., and Mrs. Mary B. Fish, formerly of this city. [Henry Republican,
Henry, IL, May 8, 1873 - Sub. by Src #25]
STREETER - SWIFT
Miss Lottie Swift, lately of Chicago, and Elias S. Streeter, of Milwaukee, were married at Oconomowoc, Wis., Thursday. [Source: "Daily Inter Ocean" (Chicago, IL.) Friday, June 17, 1887; tr. by GT Team]
THOMAS - McMAHON
James Thomas of St. Louis and Edith McMahon of Chicago were married here August 6 by Rev. Frances Wheeler. [The Deming Headlight (Deming, NM) 07 Aug 1941, p1]
TRAUT - MCCORMACK
Married, Thursday, Jan 15 by the Rev. Dr. Goodwin, at the residence of her sister, Mrs. Sydney Walker, NO. 419 West Monroe street, Fannie Mae McCormack to the Rev. G.A. Traut, of De Smet, S.D. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, IL) Mon, Jan 19, 1891; p8]
WARNER - PHILIPS
Lizzie Phillips and Benjamin Warner married in Mineral Point- 20 Aug --groom from
Chicago, bride from Mineral Point -- 23 Aug 1860 [Home Intelligencer"newspaper publi
shed in Mineral Point, Wi. 1859-1865]
WATSON - ?
Chicago - A near-tragedy in the life of R. Bruce Watson, Chicago architect and politician, has turned into a romance. Mr. Watson has married the woman who two years ago shot him twice and chased him through streets with a revolver. [Ste. Marie Tribune, Jasper County, IL - Friday, December 12, 1913]
WEIL - WALLACK
Miss Sara Weil and Mr. H. Louie Wallack will be married Tuesday at 6 o'clock, at the Ideal Club, No. 531 North Wells street. [The Inter Ocean (Chicago, Ill) 17 Feb 1889, p16]
WEINBERGER - GROSSMAN
Mr. and Mrs. I. Grossman, 2400 West Division street, announce the coming marriage
of their daughter Ruth to Martin Weinberger on Sunday, Nov. 20 [The
Chicago Record-Herald, Wednesday, November 16, 1910]
WEINSTEIN - SHORRIS
The engagement of Miss Phyllis Shorris to Alan Weinstein, son of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Nathan, 6518 N. Sacramento av., has been announced by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Shorris, 6346 Talman av. The wedding is planned for July in the Fontana D'Or, 6425 Grand av. The bride is a graduate of Illinois Teachers North college, and her fiance attends Roosevelt university. [Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, Illinois) February 6, 1966; submitted by Ida Maack Recu]
WHALEN - RITT
Marriage: May 25, Bartholomew Whalen and Louise Ritt, Father M. Schamberger officiating. [Chicago Examiner Chicago, IL) Wednesday, June 12, 1912 p17; sub by Rose Stout]
WILLIAMS - BERRY
Married at the residence of Mrs. Harrison, October 25th, by Rev. T. M. Oviatt. Mr. N
. O. Williams of Chicago, to Mrs. Mary E. Berry, of Decatur. [Illinois State Chronicle,
Decatur IL, October 27, 1859]
WILSON - EVANS
Dr. Earle E. Wilson and Miss Maurine Evans Wed
The marriage of Miss Maurine Evans, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Earl R. Evans of Champaign, Ill., to Dr. Earle E.
Wilson of Oak Park, son of Mrs. Alma B. Wilson of Oak Park, took place on May 3 [1941] in the Grace Episcopal church.
The former Miss Evans has been supervisor at Passavant hospital and head nurse at St. Luke's. Dr. Wilson was graduated
from the University of Chicago, Rush Medical school, and Northwestern University. They will make their home in
Oak Park. [Chicago Tribune, submitted
by Src #96]
WOOD - STRINGER
Married, At Elgin, Ill, Nov. 26th, 1861, by B. Burritt, Esq., Mr. Leman A. Wood, of
Crystal Lake, Minn, to Miss Maggie Stringer, of Elgin, Ill. (The Journal And Republican
(Lowville, NY)  Wednesday, January 8, 1862)
WOODMAN - KING
N. G. Woodman, merchant, of Chicago, and Miss Isabel D. King, of Jacksonville, were married at Jacksonville, Ills. The wedding was a brilliant society event. [Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Ill.), 14 Oct. 1895]
YUNDT - SCHWARZ
At the home of the bride, 230 West Washington st., on Wednesday evening, Dec. 9, by the Rev. Canon Knowles, of S. S. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Perry K. Yundt, of Ida Grove, Ia., and Louve C. Schwarz, of Chicago [Source: Chicago Daily Tribune (Chicago, IL) December 12, 1880, p6]
ALL DATA IS MADE AVAILABLE FOR
PERSONAL USE ONLY.
NONE OF OUR WORK IS TO BE COPIED ONTO ANY OTHER WEBSITE (that includes ancestry and findagrave!]
BACK -- HOME
©Copyright
Genealogy Trails
