Directory of the city of Chicago, Illinois for 1843
Directory of the city of Chicago, Illinois for 1843
[Source: Directory of the City of Chicago, Illinois for 1843; Compiled by Robert Fergus, Printer, A Resident of Chicago since July 1, 1839
Chicago: Fergus Printing Company, NW Cor. Illinois St and Dearborn Ave; 1896]
From August to December, 1843
Transcribed by K. Torp, ©2007
INTRODUCTORY.
THE cordial reception and flattering endorsements given in 1876 to the Directory for 1839, by many of Chicago's
oldest, well-known, and best-informed citizens, induced the compiler to undertake and to complete this little volume,
begun over twenty years since, with the hope that it may be as well received.
The occupations given herein of many is no criterion as to their ability to follow other vocations. A graduate
of Oxford, Eaton, Dublin, or Harvard, a lawyer without acquaintance, a poet, artist, and many similar professions
would at that time find it difficult to obtain a livelihood, as all such were of very little use in our then embryo
city.
The basis for this work was Chicago's first Directory of 1844, printed and published by Ellis & Fergus, from
a careless and indifferent canvass made during 1843-August to December, by James W. Norris, and issued in December
of that year.
One of the publishers, William Ellis who did the presswork of that volume, has been dead several years; the other
is still here, and as he set the type, he knows how much he did for it and how much worse it would have been had
he followed copy; but having been here over four years, he was somewhat acquainted with the business people in
and about the business centre and in the vicinity of his home; the others-newcomers and those outside of the central
part-he could do nothing for; and, as he later discovered, sailors were made tailors, and tailors sailors, names
were spelled at and locations guessed, etc.; in fact, the names of many prominent men were entirely omitted, or
as inserted might as well have been, as those for whom they were intended could not recognize them.
Some of the dates of death, as herein given, have been found to conflict with those of interested parties and relatives;
but so far, in every instance, on investigation they have been found to be correct. The identity of the dates of
many of those known to be dead has been difficult, and several instances have occurred where more than one date
applies to the same name, and until identified will not be inserted.
That all errors are now corrected, all omitted names inserted, or that new errors have not been made, is not claimed;
but, with the additions and alterations herein made, it is believed to be very much improved; and if those who
can will assist in this labor of love by forwarding as early as possible for the next edition any correction or
error they may discover or any omission they may know of, they will no doubt have the thanks of posterity, but
certainly those of your humble servant,
ROBERT FERGUS, Compiler.
CHICAGO, August 4, 1896.
(My 81st Birthday.)
CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND U.-S. OFFICERS, SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, SOCIETIES, STATISTICS, ETC.
City Officers: Augustus Garrett, Mayor.
Common Council for 1843:
Aldermen.
1st Ward- Cyrenius Beers, Hugh Thompson Dickey.
2d Ward- Jason McCord, Charles Sauter.
3d Ward- Charles Taylor, Azel Peck.
4th Ward- John Murphy, Wm. S. Warner,
5th Ward- Samuel Greer, John Cruver.
6th Ward- George W. Dole, Joseph Marback.
Officers of the Corporation:
James M. Lowe, Clerk.
Walter S. Gurnee, Treasurer.
Henry Brown, Attorney.
Orson Smith, Health Officer.Collector. Marshal. Street Commissioner.
Asa F. Bradley, Surveyor.
William H. Brown, School Agent.
Shubael D. Childs, Sealer of Weights and Measures.
Board of Health - Aug. Garrett, Prest.
Jeremiah Price,
Walter L. Newberry,
William Jones,
Police Constables - Henry Rhines, Hugh K. Henry, Wm. Wesencraft,
Inspector of Beef and Pork - Archibald Clybourn.
Chicago Democrat, Official Paper.
Courts and Officers of Cook County:
County-Commissioners' court :
S. M. Salisbury,
Francis Cornwell Sherman,
Jason McCord,
George Davis, Clerk.
Terms- 1st Mondays of March, June, September, and December.
JUSTICES OF THE PEACE:
Frederick A. Howe, Henry L. Rucker, Louis C. Kercheval, Valentine Armand Boyer.
PROBATE COURT:
Mahlon Dickerson Ogden, Juistice.
SUPREME COURT:
William Wilson, Chief Justice.
Associate Justices:
Samuel D. Lockwood, Thomas C. Browne, Walter Bennett Scates, Samuel H. Treat,
John Dean Caton, Richard M. Young, James Shields, Jesse Burgess Thomas, (jr.),
Ebenezer Peck, Clerk. J. Young Scammon, Reporter.
CIRCUIT COURT :
Richard M. Young, Judge.
Samuel Hoard, Clerk.
Mark Skinner, Master in Chancery.
Terms- 4th Monday of March; 3d Monday of Aug.; 1st Monday of Nov.
County Officers:
Samuel J. Lowe, Sheriff.
Wm. H. Davis, Henry Rhines - Deputy Sheriffs
Edward Murphy, Coroner.
Wm. Bradshaw Egan, Recorder.
Anton Getzler, Assessor & Treasurer.
Asa Foster Bradley, Surveyor.
Geo. Manierre, School Commissioner.
Parker M. Cole, Poor Master.
Seth Otis, Poor-House Keeper.
Alfred W. Davisson, Physician.
Archibald Clybourn, Inspector.
CONSTABLES
Henry Cunningham, George Brady, Jeremiah H. Sullivan, Daniel B. Heartt.
State Officers:
Thomas Ford, Governor.
John Moore, Lieutenant-Governor.
Thompson Campbell, Sec'y of State.
Wm. Lee D. Ewing, Auditor.
Milton Carpenter, Treasurer.
Jas. Allen McDougall, Att'y-GeneraL
James Curtiss, District-Attorney.
Notaries Public:
John Benjamin Franklin Russell, Norman Buel Judd, Alonzo Huntington, Henry Brown.
United-States Officers:
John McLean, Circuit-Judge.
Nathaniel Pope, District-Judge.
Justin Butterfield, District-Attorney.
William Prentiss, Marshal.
James F. Owings, Clerk.
John Harris Kinzie, Register Land-Office.
George L. Ward, Receiver of Land-Office.
John Wentworth, Member of Congress, 4th Congressional District-
William Stuart, Postmaster.
John McClellan, Superintendent Public Works.
Seth Johnson, Deputy-Collector and Inspector of Port.
Charles L. Schlatter, Agent Chicago Harbor.
Silas Meacham, Light-house Keeper.
Religious Societies and Associations:
First Presbyterian Church, Clark Street, between Washington and Madison. - Rev. Flavel Bascom, Pastor. Number of
congregation, 500. Number of communicants, 340.
Second Presbyterian Church, Randolph Street, between Clark and Dearborn. - Rev. Robert Wilson Patterson, Pastor.
Number of congregation, 300. Number of communicants, 60.
Unitarian Church, Washington Street, between Clark and Dearborn.- Rev. Joseph Harrington, Pastor. Number of congregation,
250. Number of communicants, 38.
Catholic Church, n.w. corner Michigan Avenue and Madison Street. Rt.-Rev. Wm. Quarters, D. D., Rev. Maurice de
St. Palais, and Rev. Francis Joseph Fischer, Pastors. Number of congregation, 2000.
The new Catholic Church at the s.w. corner of Wabash Avenue and Madison Street is progressing to completion. Dimensions-
Length, 112 feet, including 12 feet portico; width, 55 feet; height of walls, 34 feet; stone foundation, 4 feet
from the ground.
First Universalist Society.- Rev. Wm. E. Manley, Pastor; meets in the Hall of the Mechanics' Institute. Number of
congregation, 175. Number of communicants, 43.
Baptist Church, s.-e. corner of Washington and LaSalle Streets.- Rev. E. H. Hamlin, Pastor. Number of congregation,
250. Number of communicants, 140.
Baptist Tabernacle Church, LaSalle Street, between Randolph and Washington. Rev. Chas. B. Smith, Pastor. Number
of congregation, 250. Number of communicants, 100.
St. James' Church (Protestant Episcopal), Cass Street, between Michigan and Illinois. Church erected in 1837, at
a cost of about $10,000.- Rev. Wm. F. Walker, Rector. Number of congregation, 300. Number of communicants, 90.
Methodist Episcopal Church, s.-e. corner Clark and Washington Streets; new church, s.-w. corner Randolph and Canal
Streets, 3d ward.- Rev. Abraham Hanson and Rev. Luke Hitchcock, Pastors. Number of congregation, 600. Number of
communicants, 275.
Bethel Society.- Building erecting on N. Dearborn Street, between Kinzie and N.Water. Rev. W. Rowlatt, Pastor.
Evangelical Association (German), Wabash Avenue, n.-e. corner Monroe St. - Rev. Frederick Wahl, Pastor. Number of
congregation, 50. Number of communicants, 30.
German Lutheran Association Church, Illinois Street, 5th ward.
Society of the New Jerusalem- no regular ministry- meetings for the present in the City Saloon.
Sunday-schools are attached to most of these denominations.
Catholic Library Society:
Library at the Catholic Church.
George Brown, President.
Alfred M. Talley, Vice-President.
James Carney, Treasurer.
Charles McDonnell, Secretary.
James Kelly, Librarian.
Chicago Bible Society:
William Hubbard Brown, President.
Thomas Butler Carter, Secretary.
George W. Merrill, Treasurer.
Chicago Sacred Music Society:
Instituted February 13, 1842.
Benj. Wright Raymond, President.
Thomas Butler Carter, Treasurer.
Seth Porter Warner, Chas. A. Collier, Directors.
Benjamin Smith, Secretary.
Sidney Sawyer, Wm. Hubbard Brown, Elijah Smith, Exec. Com.
Washington Temperance Society:
Members, 1100.
Louis C. Kercheval, President.
Theophilus W. Smith, 1st Vice-Prest.
John Davis, 2d Vice-President.
Luther Nichols, 3d Vice-President.
Henry L. Rucker, Recording Sec'y.
John L. Smith, Assistant Secretary.
James Curtiss, Corresponding Sec'y.
James L. Howe, Treasurer.
Benj. Wright Raymond, William Harman, Managers.
Catholic Total Abstinence Society:
Members, 500. Under the direction of the Catholic clergy.
Mariners' Temperance Society:
Instituted July 10, 1842. Members, 271.
George A. Robb, President.
Grant Goodrich, Vice-President.
Capt. Henry Cortney, Secretary.
Capt. Geo. Peterson, Ambrose B. Gould, David Mclntosh - Floating Com.
Samuel Gerome, John Prindiville, T. F. Hunter, H. Smith, Iver Lawson - Vigilance Com.
Junior Washington Temperance Society:
Organized March 11, 1843. Members, 118.
OFFICERS:
Edward A. Rucker, President.
Edward Morey, 1st Vice-President.
Alfred Scranton, 2d Vice-President.
William Wayman, 3d Vice-President.
David D. Griswold, Recording Sec'y.
James A. Martling, Assistant Sec'y.
Asa Covey, Corresponding Sec'y.
William H. Scoville, Treasurer.
Reuben B. Heacock, Richard H. Morey - Managers
Masonic Lodge:
Corner of [6] Clark and [145] South-Water Streets, third story.
Chicago Lyceum:
Instituted Dec. 2, 1834. Incorporated Feb. 27, 1839.
---------, President.
Mark Skinner, William Jones, Silas Meacham, Geo. W. Meeker, John B. Weir -¦ Vice-Presidents.
George Manierre, Secretary.
John Herbert Foster, Treasurer.
William H. Kennicott, Librarian.
There is a Library of 400 volumes belonging to this Lyceum.
Young Men's Association:
Organized 1841.
Members, 206.
Seth T. Otis, President.
Isaac Newton Arnold, 1st Vice-Prest.
William M. Larrabee, 2d Vice-Prest.
Ashley Gilbert, Recording Secretary.
David S. Lee, Corresponding Sec'y.
Charles R. Vandercook, Treasurer.
Managers: Ashley Gilbert, John M. Underwood, Cyrus Mann, Samuel W. Goss, Laurin Palmer Hilliard, Joseph E. Brown
-
Reading-Room and Library of the Association, in the Saloon, second story, entrance 37 Clark Street.
Public lectures are provided for by the rules of the Association, and are had regularly during the winter months.
From the rules of the Association: " Any member may have the privilege of introducing strangers to the rooms
of the Association, by registering their names in a book to be kept for that purpose; and such strangers shall
have free access to the rooms of the Association for two weeks after such introduction.
"Any person may have access to the rooms of the Association by paying therefore fifty cents per month."
Mechanics' Institute:
Organized February 23, 1842.
Incorporated 1843.
Members, 173.
Ira Miltimore, President.
James M. Adsit, 1st Vice-President.
Geo. Franklin Foster, 2d Vice-Prest.
John B. Weir, Recording Secretary.
John Gage, Corresponding Secretary.
John Haight Hodgson, Treasurer.
Horatio Cook, Librarian.
Charles M. Gray, Assistant Librarian.
Isaac Lawrence Milliken, Isaac Speer, E. D. Bates, Bennet Bailey, Elijah Smith - Directors.
Hall of the Mechanics' Institute, Saloon Buildings, third story. Entrance, 37 Clark Street.
The Mechanical Department of the Prairie Farmer, John Gage, editor, is under the direction of the Institute.
The Library Room of the Institute in an adjoining room, as accession has recently been made to this library.
Chicago Repeal Association.
William Bradshaw Egan, President.
Lewis C. Kercheval, Vice-President.
Henry L. Rucker, Correspond. Sec'y.
Charles McDonnell, Secretary.
James Carney, Treasurer.
Young Men's Lyceum.
Instituted September 25, 1843.
David D. Griswold, President.
Edwin C. Stowe, Vice-President.
William H. Scoville, Secretary.
Edward Morey, Treasurer.
Hydraulic Company.
Capital, $200,000.
Buckner Smith Morris, President.
Lemuel Covell Paine Freer, Sec'y.
Alexander Brand, Treasurer.
Directors- Benj. Wright Raymond, Walter Smith Gurnee, Stephen Francis Gale, Smith Jones Sherwood
Applications for water to be made to Smith J. Sherwood, 144 Lake Street.
Union Agricultural Society:
President, Lewis Ellsworth of DuPage.
Vice-Presidents:
Seth Washburn of Lake, William VanOsdel of McHenry, Shephard Johnston of Kane, Samuel Goodrich of DuPage, Robert
Strong of Will, James McClellan of Kendall, Joseph Vial of Cook
Matthias Lane Dunlap of Cook, Recording Secretary.
E. W. Brewster of Kane, Corresponding Secretary.
M. H. Demmond of Will, Treasurer.
Robert Strong, William Smith, Chester Ingersoll, J Edward Perkins, Jasper Augustus Gooding - all of Will. --Committee
on Fairs
Office of Prairie Farmer , 112 Lake Street.
Newspaper Offices and Publication Days:
Better Covenant , Saturday; Randolph Street, between Wells and Franklin. Seth Barnes, editor and proprietor.
Chicago Democrat , Wednesday; 107 Lake Street. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor.
Chicago Express , daily, Tuesday, weekly; 98 Lake Street. William W. Brackett, editor and proprietor.
Northwestern Baptist , semi-monthly, Tuesday; 124 Lake St. I. N. Powell, editor.
Prairie Farmer , monthly; 112 Lake Street. John S. Wright and J. Ambrose Wight, editors. John S. Wright,
proprietor.
Western Citizen , Thursday; 124 Lake Street. Zebina Eastman and Asa B. Brown, editors..
Book and Job Printing-office:
Ellis [Wm.] & Fergus [Robert], 37 Clark St., Saloon Bldgs, s.e. cor. Lake.
Post-office:
50 Clark St., west side, bet. Lake and Randolph. Wm. Stuart, Postmaster.
A weekly mail from the East was received here on horseback in 1832- Jonathan Nash Bailey being postmaster. The
next year it was received in a one-horse wagon, weekly- John Stephen Coates Hogan, postmaster. In 1833, a two-horse
wagon was substituted. In 1834, a four-horse stage-line was established semi-weekly; tri-weekly in 1835. In 1837,
there was a daily Eastern mail- Sidney Abell, postmaster. There are now received and made up at this office forty-eight
mails weekly, and the receipts of the office amount to about $10,000. The following statement will show the number
of mails received at this time and the present post-office arrangements:
Great Eastern- Arrives, during lake navigation, daily, except Tuesday, by 4 a. m. Closes daily, except Monday,
at 8}4 a.m. During suspension of navigation arrives daily, except Monday, by 4 a.m. Closes daily, except Sunday,
at 8½ a.m.
Michigan-City Land Mail- Arrives, during lake navigation, every Wednesday by 10 a. m. Closes every Wednesday at
2 p.m.
Southern via Peoria- Arrives daily, except Monday, by 7 p.m. Closes daily, except Sunday, at 8 p.m.
Dixon via Aurora, from April 1 to Nov. 1- Arrives Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday by 6 a.m. Closes Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday at 8 p.m. From Nov. 1 to April 1 - Arrives Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday by 6 p.m. Closes Sunday, Tuesday,
and Thursday at 8 p.m.
Galena via Rockford, from April 1 to Dec. 1- Arrives Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday by 8 p. m. Closes Sunday, Tuesday,
and Friday at 8
p.m. From Dec. 1 to April 1 - Arrives Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday by 5 p.m. Closes Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
at 8 p.m.
Milwaukee (Wis.)- Arrives Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday by 5 p.m. Closes Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday at 8 p.m.
Janesville (Wis.) via McHenry, Ill.- Arrives Wednesday by 2 p. m. Closes Thursday at 9 a.m.
Thornton via Blue Island- Arrives every Tuesday by 4 p.m. Closes every Wednesday at 9 a.m.
Office closed at 8 p.m.
Office open:
From March 1 to May 1 at 7½ a.m.
From May 1 to Sept. 1 at 7 a.m.
From Sept. 1 to Nov. 1 at 7½ a.m.
From Nov. 1 to March 1 at 8 a.m.
On Sundays:
From Oct. 1 to April 1, from 8½ to 9½ a.m. and 4 to 5 p.m.
From April 1 to Oct. 1, from 8 to 9 a.m. and 5 to 6 p.m.
Military Companies:
Chicago Guards:
John Benj. Franklin Russell, Captain.
Wm. M. Larrabee, 1st Lieutenant.
Frederick A. Howe, 2d Lieutenant.
Stephen Francis Gale, 3d Lieutenant.
Montgomery Guards:
Patrick Kelly, Captain.
Wm. Bergen Snowhook, 1st Lieut.
Henry Cunningham, 2d Lieutenant.
Michael O'Brien, 3d Lieutenant.
Chicago Cavalry:
Jas. V. Sanger, Captain.
Samuel N. Davis, 1st Lieutenant.
Chas. E. Peck, 2d Lieutenant.
Charles G. Wicker, 3d Lieutenant.
James L. Howe, Cornet.
Chas. L. P. Hogan, Orderly Sergeant.
Chicago Fire Companies:
Alson S. Sherman, Chief-Engineer.
Stephen Francis Gale, 1st Assistant.
Alexander Loyd, 2d. Assistant.
Engine Company No. 1:
Ashley Gilbert, Foreman.
Geo. Franklin Foster, Ass't-Foreman.
John Calhoun, Clerk and Treasurer.
Alvin Calhoun, Steward.
Engine Company No. 2:
Sanford Johnson, Foreman.
Ira Coleman, Assistant-Foreman.
Austin D. Sturtevant, Secretary and Treasurer.
Chicago Fire-Bucket Co. No. 1:
Samuel A. Lowe, Foreman.
Francis T. Sherman, Ass't-Foreman.
Wm. Harrison Jones, Clerk and Treas.
Hose Company No. 1:
This is a new company. No election of officers has yet been had.
Hook-and-Ladder Co. No. 1:
Joseph W. Hooker, Foreman.
Seth Porter Warner, Ass't-Foreman.
Jos. L. Hanson, Sec'y and Treasurer.
Jeremiah Price, Assistant-Secretary.
Chicago Fire-Guard:
Geo. A. Robb, Foreman.
Leroy M. Boyce, Assistant-Foreman.
David S. Lee, Secretary.
John C. Haines, Treasurer.
Ira Couch, Steward.
Rush Medical College:
Incorporated by the Legislature of Illinois in 1837.
Board of Trustees:
Wm. B. Ogden, Esq., President.
Theophilus W. Smith, Esq.
James H. Collins, Esq.
Justin Butterfield, Esq.
Edmund S. Kimberly, M.D.
Hon. John Dean Caton.
Rev. S. S. Whitman.
John Harris Kinzie, Esq.
Edmund Dick Taylor, Esq.
Mark Skinner, Esq.
John Gage, Esq.
Grant Goodrich, Esq., Secretary.
Julius Wadsworth, Esq.
Hugh T. Dickey, Esq.
Walter L. Newberry, Esq.
Geo. W. Snow, Esq.
Norman Buel Judd, Esq.
Ex Officio:
Hon. Thomas Ford, Governor.
Hon. John Moore, Lieut. Governor.
Hon. Sam'l Hackleton, Speaker H.R.
Faculty:
Daniel Brainard, M.D., Professor of Anatomy and Surgery.
James VanZant Blaney, M.D., Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica.
John McLean, M.D., Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine.
M. L. Knapp, M. D., Prof, of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children.
Alfred W. Davisson, Prosector to the Professor of Anatomy.
The annual course of Lectures for the first session commenced on Monday, Dec. 4, 1843, and will continue sixteen
weeks. The subsequent courses will commence on the first Monday of November. The fees are as follows: Anatomy and
Surgery, $20; Chemistry and Materia Medica, $20; Theory and Practice of Medicine, $10; Obstetrics and Diseases
of Women and Children, $10; Dissecting ticket, $5; Graduation fee, $20. The requirements for graduation are: three
years study with a respectable physician, two courses of lectures, one of which must be in this institution (or
two years practice will be received in lieu of one course). The candidate must be 21 years of age, of good moral
character, must present a thesis on some medical subject of his own composition, and in his own handwriting, which
shall be approved by the faculty; and pass a satisfactory examination on all the branches taught in this College.
Good board and room can be obtained in Chicago at from $1.50 to $2 per week. This institution is now in successful
operation.
City Dispensary:
This Institution was opened in connection with the Rush Medical College, for the purpose of affording relief to
the indigent and practical instruction to-medical students. It is located in the wooden building on the east side
of Clark Street, near the bridge. Open Mondays, Tuesdays, and Fridays, from 8½ to 9½ o'clock. It
is supported by voluntary contributions of benevolent persons.
Common Schools:
Inspectors: William Jones, Jonathan Young Scammon, George W. Meeker, Mark Skinner, William Hubbard Brown, Augustine
Deodat Taylor.
Anton Getzler
Wm. Hubbard Brown, Agent and Treasurer of the School Fund.
Teachers:
District 1, School 1. Samuel C. Bennett, 97 scholars
District 1, School 2. Miss Mary B. Bennett, - - 75 scholars
District 2, School 1.Austin D. Sturtevant, - - 130 scholars
District 2, School 1.Miss V. C. Freer, - - 70 scholars
District 3, School 1. Francis Field, - - - 131 scholars
District 4, School 1. Alden G. Wilder, - - - 130 scholars
District 4, School 2. Mrs. Mary E. Warner, - - 110 scholars
District 4, School 3. Miss M. Smith, - - 75 scholars
Chicago Female Seminary:
Instituted 1843. Rev. A. W. Henderson, A.M., Principal.
The object of this Institution is to give young ladies a thorough, practical education, to develop and mould the
character, cultivate the manners, and form correct habits. A Teachers' Department is connected with the Seminary.
It is located on the corner of Clark and Washington streets.
Board of Visitors:
Rev. Flavel Bascom, Rev. Robert Wilson Patterson, Hon. Benjamin Wright Raymond, Henry Brown, Esq., James H. Collins,
Esq.,
William Hubbard Brown, Esq., Hon. Isaac Newton Arnold, Hon. Samuel Hoard, Grant Goodrich, Esq.
Population of the City of Chicago
According to the Census taken by Jas. W. Norris, August 1, 1843, under the authority of the Common Council; together
with a comparison of this with the census of former periods.
Remarks. - The following census was taken with great care and accuracy, all persons not permanently residing in
the City being in every instance excluded. The population of the place might have been made much larger than it
appears to be by the result of this census, undoubtedly 8500 by including a class of transitory persons, which
it is customary to compute as a part of the population of cities; but it was thought advisable to base the present
census upon a permanent foundation; the census of subsequent periods will then show the actual amount of increase.
By transitory persons are to be understood persons not having a permanent residence in either of the wards of the
City, and persons living here but absent for the time being- by natives of other countries, those actually born
abroad, and not their descendants, who are included among the natives of this country. It is proper to remark that
a great increase of population has taken place since the date of this census. The present population exceeds 8000.
Wards:
1st
2d.
3d
4th
5th
6th
Totals
Males :
10 years and under
245
284
57
65
100
257
1000
Over 10 and under 21
146
133
41
36
63
143
562
Over 21 and under 45
627
614
130
102
155
439
2067
Over 45 and under 60
25
39
7
8
9
40
128
Over 60
5
8
2
2
0
10
27
3792
Females :
10 years and under
217
271
87
64
98
280
1017
Over 10 and under 21
186
183
31
27
37
166
630
Over 21 and under 45
398
384
94
73
106
338
1393
Over 45 and under 60
27
29
7
6
11
36
116
Over 60
7
7
1
1
2
16
34
3190
Colored males under 21
2
6
0
0
0
4
12
Colored males over 21
9
14
2
2
0
3
30
Colored females under 21
3
4
0
0
0
3
10
Colored females over 21
2
9
0
0
0
2
13
65
Transient persons
87
246
50
28
19
103
533
533
Population 1843
1986
2231
509
414
600
1840
7580
7580
Population 1840
1197
1467
251
179
436
1323
4853
Increase
789
764
258
235
164
517
2727
Number of Irish
170
206
29
50
175
143
773
Germans and Norwegians
104
217
32
21
90
352
816
Natives of other countries
134
156
80
84
50
163
667
Americans
1578
1652
368
259
285
1182
5324
7580
Whole number of Families
1177
Port of Chicago:
Capt. Seth Johnson, Deputy Collector and Inspector.
Revenue Office, 38 Clark Street.
The following tabular statements will exhibit, with an approach to accuracy, the amount and value of the trade
of Chicago to the close of the present year, 1843. A very serious difficulty has existed heretofore in ascertaining
the actual amount of exports and imports of the place, especially the exports, owing to the fact that a great many
vessels arrive and depart during the season of navigation without being reported at the Custom-House, or leaving
any evidence of the character and amount of their cargoes. The existence of this difficulty was more particularly
set forth in a memorial of the Common Council to Congress, in the year 1840, in which they allow a deduction of
one-third from the amount known, to be added for the amount unknown. It has been thought advisable in the following
statement to give only the actual amount, as ascertained from record in the revenue office, it being understood,
from the above explanation, that the estimate is considerably below the true amount:
Exports :
Imports :
1836
$1,000.64
1836
$325,203.90
1837
11,065.00
1837
373,667.12
1838
16,044.75
1838
579,174.61
1839
33,843.00
1839
630,980.26
1840
228,635.74
1840
562,106.20
1841
348,362.24
1841
564,347.88
1842
659,305.20
1842
664,347.88
Articles Exported during the Year 1842:
Wheat, - 586,907 bushels
Flour, 2,920 bbls
Corn, 35,358 bushels
Beef, 762 bbls
Oats, 53,486 bushels
Pork and Hams, 15,447 bbls
Peas, 484 bushels
Barley, 1,090 bushels
Lard, 367,200 lbs.
Tallow, 151,300 lbs
Soap, 2,400 lbs
Candles, 500 lbs
Fish, 915 bbls
Flax Seed, 750 bushels
Hides, No. of - 6,947
Brooms, No. of - 5,587
Maple Sugar, - 4,500 lbs.
Tobacco, - 3,000 lbs
Lead, 59,990 lbs
Butter, 24,200 lbs
Feathers, - 2,409 lbs
Wool, - 15,000 lbs
Furs and Peltries, 446 Packs
Articles Exported during the Year 1843:
Wheat, _ 628,967 bushels
Corn, - 2,443 bushels
Tobacco, - 74,900 pounds
Lead, - 360,000
Oats, 3,767 bushels
Wool, 22,050 pounds
Flax Seed, 1,920 bushels
Candles, 4,900
Pork, 11,112 barrels.
Soap, 5,300 pounds
Lard, - 2,823 barrels
Packages Furs, 393 pounds
Beef, 10,380 barrels
Brooms, - 180 dozen
Hides, No. of - 14,536
Flour, 10,786 barrels.
Tallow, 1,133 barrels
Articles Imported During the Year 1843
Merchandise, 2,012 tons.
" 101,470 pkgs
Shingles, 4,117,025
Square timber, - 16,600 feet.
Salt, 27,038 barrels
Staves, 57,000
Whiskey, 2,585 barrels
Bark, 430 cords
Lumber, 7,545,142 feet
Vessels arrived and cleared during the years 1842-3:
Arrived.
1842 - 705
1843 - 756
Cleared
705
691
Total.
1410
1447
Aggregate Tons.
117,711
289,852
A number of vessels left port this year without being reported.
During the present season, 14,856 barrels of beef have been packed at the several packing houses in the City; only
a small portion of this has been exported. The quantity of hides and tallow is not known, but will bear a proportion
to the quantity of beef. An amount of pork will be put up here the coming winter, greatly exceeding any former
season. No statement in regard to this department can be made in this connection, as the business is but just commencing.
BUSINESS DIRECTORY.
ATTORNEYS.
BEAUMONT & SKINNER, attorneys, counsellors, and solicitors in chancery, Chicago, Ill. Geo. A. O. Beaumont,
Mark Skinner.
HENRY BROWN, attorney and counsellor at law, office s.-w. corner of Lake and Dearborn streets, over the general
stage-office.
J. BUTTERFIELD, Jr., attorney and counsellor at law, and land agent, east side of [5] Clark Street, first door
from South-Water.
HENRY W. CLARKE, attorney, counsellor at law, solicitor in chancery, conveyancer and general land-agent, office,
38 Clark St., opp. City Saloon.
JAMES CURTISS, attorney and counsellor at law, office 136 Lake Street.
HUGH T. DICKEY, attorney and counsellor at law, 103½ Lake St., Chicago.
FREER & DeWOLF, attorneys and counsellors, Chicago, Ill., office on Clark St., opp. City Hotel. Lemuel Covell
Paine Freer, Calvin DeWolf.
HAMILTON & CHAMBERLAINE'S law office, Clark St., opp. Post-Office.
A. HUNTINGTON, attorney and counsellor at law, 98 Lake St., Chicago.
ALBERT G. LEARY, advokat und Rechts-Rathgeber, Chicago, Cook Co., Illinois, office and house, 53 Clark St., opposite
the City Hotel.
MANIERRE & MEEKER, attorneys and counsellors at law and solicitors in chancery, 118 Lake St., Chicago. Geo.
Manierre, Geo. W. Meeker.
B. S. MORRIS, attorney and counsellor at law, office Clark Street, opposite City Hotel.
J. W. NORRIS, law office, Clark Street, opposite City Saloon.
P. PHELPS, law and chancery office, Dearborn Street, Chicago.
SCAMMON & JUDD, attorneys and counsellors at law, office 123 Lake St., City Saloon. Jonathan Young Scammon,
Norman Buel Judd.
SMITH & BALLINGALL, counsellors at. law, Harmon & Loomis' Building, Clark St., Chicago, Ill. Theophilus
W. Smith, Patrick Ballingall.
SPRING & GOODRICH, attorneys and counsellors at law, 124 Lake St., Chicago, Ill. Giles Spring, Grant Goodrich.
AUCTIONEERS.
JOHN BATES, Jr., auction and commission merchant, 174 Lake St., Chicago.
GEORGE W. GRIDLEY, auction and commission merchant, 85 Lake St.
PARKER & DODGE, auctioneers and commission merchants, Clark Street, Chicago, Ill. John Parker, John C. Dodge.
BANKERS AND BROKERS.
J. COE CLARK, exchange broker, Clark St., 2 doors north of Lake, e. side.
MURRAY & BRAND, private bankers and exchange brokers, 127 Lake Street. Deposit accounts kept, interest allowed
on special deposits, drafts granted and money collected on New York, Buffalo, Cincinnati,. St. Louis, and Detroit,
and Great Britain and Ireland, advances on produce, etc., etc. James Murray, Alex. Brand.
GEORGE SMITH & CO., bankers and insurance brokers, (bank building),. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ill.
RICHARD K. SWIFT will loan money on bonds and mortgages and other undoubted securities, office in the "Tremont
Buildings," 2d story, over Clarke's drug store, 102 Lake Street, Chicago.
BILLIARD ROOMS.
HATCH & SHUR, new ball alley and saloon, choice liquors and fresh oysters, superior to any in the City.
Heman Hatch, W. Shur.
BILLIARD SALOON, west side of Clark Street, over J. Johnson's barber shop. [James L. Dole.]
JOHN F. LESSEY & SAMUEL WINEGAR, new billiard saloon, corner of Dearborn and South-Water streets, Chicago,
Ill.
BOOKBINDERY.
J. A. HOISINGTON, Chicago bookbindery, (late Bowman [Ariel] & Ross [Hugh]), Saloon Building, corner of Lake
and Clark streets; having taken the above establishment, is prepared to execute binding in all its branches with
neatness and dispatch. N. B.- All orders in the above business thankfully received and promptly attended to.
BOOTS, SHOES, ETC.
W. H. ADAMS & CO., manufacturers and wholesale and retail dealers in boots, shoes, leather, findings, etc.,
138 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
S. B. COLLINS & CO., boot, shoe, and leather dealers, 140 Lake Street.
JOHONNOTT, WELLS & CO., general dealers in leather, hides, findings, oils, etc., etc., 159 Lake Street, new
buildings, Chicago, Ill.; cash paid for hides. E. S. Johonnott, A. Wells, Alson S. Sherman.
J. B. MITCHELL, custom boot and shoe maker, east side Clark Street, between Lake and Water streets, Chicago.
C. & J. SAUTER, manufacturers and general dealers in boots and shoes, 212 Lake Street, Chicago; cash paid for
hides.
SOLOMON TAYLOR, boot and shoe manufacturer, gentlemen's boots and shoes; ladies' gaiters, kid slippers, and buskins;
misses', boys', and children's boots and shoes constantly on hand; all orders punctually attended to at No. 152½
Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
JOSEPH E. WARE, fashionable boot and shoe manufactory, Clark Street, opposite City Saloon. Having been liberally
patronized by the citizens of Chicago and vicinity, still continues to make work that is deserving of comparison
with anything in the line that is made in Chicago; the utmost attention will be paid to all orders and the best
of stock used; a good fit may be depended on; easy shoes and opera boots made of the best quality of buckskin;
persons having tender or difficult feet to fit will find it to their advantage to give him their custom. N. B.- Repairing
done in the neatest manner.
CABINET MAKERS.
D. A. & E. M. JONES, cabinet and chair manufacturers, Dearborn Street, three doors north of Tremont Buildings,
Chicago, Ill.
MANAHAN. & JACOBUS, manufacturers of cabinet furniture, chairs, sofas, bedsteads, etc.; furniture made to order
in the neatest style; 10 Clark Street, Chicago, Ill.
C. MORGAN, manufacturer of all kinds of cabinet ware and chairs, cheap for cash, 199 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
JOHN B. WEIR, manufacturer and dealer in furniture of all kinds, 188 Lake Street, Chicago.
DRUGS AND MEDICINES.
L. M. BOYCE, wholesale and retail druggist, 119 Lake Street, Chicago.
CLARKE & CO., 102 Lake Street, Chicago, drugs and medicines, manufacturers of lard-oil and candles.
S. SAWYER, wholesale and retail dealer in drugs, paints, oils, dyestuffs,. glass, medicines, chemicals, perfumery,
and groceries, 124 Lake Street,. two doors from Clark Street, Chicago, Ill.
DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, ETC.
BALLENTINE & SHERMAN, wholesale and retail dealers in staple and fancy dry goods, groceries, etc., 122 Lake
Street, Chicago, Ill.; cash paid for wheat and other country produce.
JAMES E. BISHOP, general dealer in dry goods, groceries, hardware, etc., 131 Lake Street, Chicago. N. B.- All kinds
of country produce taken in exchange for goods; cash paid for wheat and pork.
A. G. BURLEY & CO., importers and wholesale and retail dealers in china, glass, earthen, stone-ware, and looking-glasses,
105 Lake Street.
BRACKEN & TULLER, 161 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill., wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, hardware,
leather, boots, shoes,, powder, etc.
COMSTOCK & ACKLEY, wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, and provisions, 82 Lake Street, Chicago,
Ill.
DYER & CHAPIN, wholesale and retail dealers in staple and fancy dry goods, groceries, nails, glass, etc., etc.;
cash paid for wheat; 103 Lake Street, Chicago. Thomas Dyer, John P. Chapin.
JOHN FENNERTY, wholesale and retail dealer in dry goods, groceries, ready-made clothing, etc., 100 Lake Street,
Chicago, Ill.; cheap for cash; also on hand, nails, glass, indigo, madder, alum, cotton yarn, etc.
JOHN L. GRAY, dealer in dry goods and groceries, n.-e. cor. of Clark and North-Water streets, at the bridge, Chicago,
Ill.
JAMES HERVEY, dealer in dry goods, groceries, produce, etc., South-Water Street, Chicago, Ill.
C. N. HOLDEN & CO., wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, nails, glass, boots, shoes, hats,
caps, shovels, spades, forks, ropes, pails, and cords; choice tea and coffee always on hand; corner Clark and South-Water
streets, near the bridge.
J. B. IRVIN & CO., wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, hardware, crockery, boots, shoes,
etc., Dearborn Street, 2d door from Lake Street, Chicago, Ill. N. B.- Cash and the highest price paid for all kinds
of country produce.
B. JONES & CO., general dealers in dry goods, groceries, lumber, and produce, South-Water Street, between Clark
and Dearborn streets, Chicago; cash paid for wheat.
LOYD, BLAKESLEY & CO., wholesale and retail dealers in groceries, nails, glass, shoes, leather, etc.; cash
paid for wheat; 101 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill. Alex. Loyd, H. A. Blakesley, Henry Norton.
H. NORTON & CO., wholesale and retail dealers in groceries, liquors, paints, oils, nails, glass, crockery,
staple dry goods, South-Water Street, Chicago, Ill. Horace Norton, Joel C. Walter.
THERON NORTON, wholesale and retail dealer in staple and fancy dry goods, wet and dry groceries, hardware, crockery,
ready-made clothing, hats, caps, salt, nails, glass, etc., 117 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
B. F. SHERMAN, general dealer in staple and fancy dry goods, groceries, boots, shoes, and leather, 126 Lake Street,
corner of Clark.
N. SHERMAN, Jr., wholesale and retail dealer in dry goods, groceries, nails, glass, sash, etc., etc , 158 Lake
Street, n.-e. cor. Lake and LaSalle
streets, Chicago, Ill.
H. & E. SMITH, wholesale and retail dealers in merchant tailors' goods, clothing, dry goods, groceries, and
hardware, 146 Lake Street, Chicago.
N. B.- Clothing made in the newest style and at reduced prices.
STEVENS & CARPENTER, wholesale and retail dealers in staple dry goods, groceries, hardware, boots, shoes, crockery,
etc., 166 Lake St., Chicago, Ill. Henry Stevens, Jas. H. Carpenter.
H. O. STONE, wholesale and retail dealer in dry goods, groceries, hardware, etc., 114 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.;
storage and forwarding, South-Water Street; cash paid for wheat, flour, corn, oats, etc.
N. & F. TUTTLE, wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, nails, glass, boots, leather, etc., 68
Lake St., Chicago, Ill., a few doors east of Tremont House; cash paid for wheat. Nelson Tuttle, Frederick Tuttle.
C. WALKER & CO., wholesale and retail dealers in leather, boots, shoes, and findings, dry goods, groceries,
hardware, nails, oils, paints, glass, etc., South-Water Street, Chicago; cash paid for wheat and hides.
S. B. WALKER, 148 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill., general dealer in dry goods, groceries, glass, crockery, hardware,
cutlery, boots, shoes, etc.
E. S. & J. WADSWORTH, dealers in dry goods and groceries at wholesale and retail, 113 Lake Street, Chicago,
Ill.
C. G. WICKER & CO., cheap cash store, 94 Lake Street, wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries,
leather, glass, nails, produce, etc.
M. & M. A. WURTS, wholesale and retail dealers in dry goods, groceries, boots, shoes, leather, etc., 99 Lake
Street, Chicago, Ill.
FORWARDING AND COMMISSION.
BRISTOL & PORTER, storage, forwarding, and commission merchants, Chicago, Ill. Robert C. Bristol, Hibbard
Porter.
HORACE BUTLER, general agent in the forwarding and commission business, also for the purchase of wheat and other
produce; dealer in staple dry goods, groceries, and hardware, also flour, salt, pork, glass, fish, shingles, plaster,
etc., etc.; all orders for purchasing of produce or forwarding of goods and property attended to with promptness;
Chicago.
JOHN P. CHAPIN & CO., forwarding and commission merchants, Chicago; references: Geo. Smith & Co., E. S.
& J. Wadsworth, Chicago; Sleight & Gould, Michigan City, Ind.; James Murray & Co., Kinnie & Davies,
Buffalo; Strachan & Scott, Wilson, Butler & Baldwin, Geo. H. Hutchins, Varnam, Graham & Bebb, New York.
C L. HARMON, commission merchant and wholesale grocer, corner South-Water and Clark streets, Chicago, Ill.
G. S. HUBBARD, forwarding merchant and dealer in produce and provisions, South-Water Street, between Clark and
LaSalle streets, Chicago.
HUMPHREYS & WINSLOW, forwarding commission merchants and produce dealers, Chicago, Ill.
ORRINGTON LUNT, forwarding and commission merchant, Chicago, Ill.; produce of all kinds purchased and sold on commission;
references: Bigelow & Gibson, Joseph Balistere & Co., Boston; E. T. H. Gibson & Co., Allen & Paxson,
New York; Geo. W. Tift & Co., Buffalo.
J. D. MERRITT, forwarder, commission merchant, and dealer in produce and staple goods, Chicago, Ill.
HORACE NORTON & CO., storage, forwarding, and commission merchants, dealers in produce, iron, coal, etc., Chicago,
Ill.; liberal advances made on produce. Horace Norton, Joel C. Walter, Edward Kendall Rogers.
NEWBERRY & DOLE, storage, forwarding, and commission merchants, foot of Clark Street, at the bridge, Chicago,
Ill.; agents for the following lines: Merchants' Transportation Company, R. Hunter & Co., Hunter, Palmer &
Co., proprietors; F. Wilkie, New York, Otis Clapp, Boston, R. Hunter & Co., Albany, Hunter, Palmer & Co.,
Buffalo. O. Newberry, Detroit, agents. Troy and Ohio and Detroit lines, J. H. Hooker, David Camp, proprietors;
A. Rindge, New York, J. H. Wilgus, New York, Camp & Hooker, Buffalo, Dorr, Webb & Co., Detroit, Gray &
Lewis, Detroit, agents. Liberal advances made on produce.
THERON PARDEE, commission merchant and forwarder, North-Water Street, Chicago, Ill., is agent for the New York,
Oswego, and Chicago line of steam propellers, which connects with the Troy and Oswego line (passage and freight
boats). Bronson & Crocker, Oswego, H. C. Rossiter, Troy, proprietors; J. S. Wychoff, 33 Coenties Slip, N. Y.,
J. R. Hall, Boston, agents. New York, Utica, and Oswego line (lake boats exclusively), Bronson & Crocker, Oswego,
N.Y., H. C. Rossiter, Troy, N.Y., Farewell & Harrington, Utica, N. Y., proprietors; W. S. Rossiter, 23 Coenties
Slip, N.Y., J. R. Hall, Boston, agents.
WHITING, MAGILL & CO., produce dealers, North-Water St., Chicago, Ill.; storage, forwarding, and commission.
GROCERS.
CHARLES CLEAVER, dealer in groceries, 177 Lake Street; lard-oil, soap and candle factory, Canal St., between
Madison and Monroe, Chicago.
HAMILTON & WHITE, dealers in groceries, provisions, and produce, lard-oil, stearine candles, dried fruit, sash,
nails, glass, powder, shot, lead, wooden-ware, clothing, etc., etc., 139 Lake Street, (first door west of Lake-Street
House), Chicago, Ill.
C. McDONNELL, grocery store and boarding-house attached, and stabling in the rear, corner of Market and Randolph
streets, between the South-Branch bridge and the Sauganash Hotel, Chicago, Ill.
H. NEWHALL, wholesale and retail dealer in fruit, 123 Lake St., Chicago.
WARD RATHBONE, wholesale and retail dealer in fruit, groceries, dry-goods, choice liquors, 141 Lake Street, Chicago.
PHILO C. SHELDON, 254, corner of Lake and Water streets, opposite the Sauganash; groceries, provisions, and liquors;
Chicago, Ill.
HAIR-DRESSERS.
OLIVER C. HENSON, barber and fashionable hair-dresser, 183 Lake St., Chicago, Ill.; perfumery for sale.
A. J. MILLER, barber and fashionable hair-dresser, Market Street, near the Sauganash, Chicago, Ill.; French pomatum,
an article superior to every other kind of hair-oil, for beautifying and preserving the hair; cigars of the best
quality constantly on hand.
HARDWARE, ETC.
BOTSFORD & BEERS, wholesale and retail dealers in stoves, Junietta, Swedes, and English iron, tin plate,
sheet iron and copper, hollow and hard ware, cutlery, nails, spikes, sash, glass, blacksmiths', carpenters', joiners',
and coopers' tools; 109 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill. Jabez Kent Botsford, Cyrenius Beers.
L. W. CLARK, 128 Lake, corner of Clark Street, Chicago, wholesale and retail dealer in hardware, saddlery, and
cutlery, iron, steel, nails, spikes, and glass, stoves, tin, sheet iron, and copper ware.
J. B. DOGGETT, agent for the Brownsville Juniata iron works, warehouse corner of Lake and State streets, Chicago,
Ill.
GURNEE & MATTESON, wholesale and retail dealers in hardware, saddlery, and cutlery, iron, steel, nails, spikes,
glass, stoves, tin, sheet-iron, and copper ware, leather, shoe findings, etc.; 116 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.;
cash and the highest market price paid for hides.
DAVID HATCH, dealer in hardware, 98 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill. (store with Sylvester Marsh).
RYERSON & BLAIKIE, 90 Lake Street, opposite the Tremont House,. Pittsburg iron-store (Hecla works), flat bar,
tire, round, square, hoop, band, saddle tree, horseshoe, boiler, sheet-iron, etc., plough, spring, blister, English
and German steel, buggy springs, axles, wagon and dearborn boxes, also nails, brads, cut and wrought spikes, white
lead, glass, etc.; Chicago, Ill., 1844. Joseph Turner Ryerson, Andrew Blaikie.
H. M. STOW, the Chicago Steam Iron-works; the subscriber would most respectfully inform the public that he is carrying
on the iron and brass casting business at his new establishment, on the corner of Randolph and Canal streets, opposite
the Western Hotel, where he can make work in the above line, both great and small, and of the best workmanship
and cheaper than the cheapest. N. B.- Orders taken at the furnace store on Clark Street, between Lake and Water
streets, and promptly attended to.
HATS, CAPS, ETC.
CHARLES BUHL, manufacturer of hats and caps, and dealer in furs, buffalo robes, hatters' stock, trimmings, etc.;
129 Lake Street, Chicago.
A. GETZLER, cap and umbrella manufacturer, and general dealer in hats, caps, and furs, 151 Lake Street, Chicago,
Ill.
HOTELS, ETC.
JOHN ANDERSON, Washington Hall, temperance house, North-Water Street, near the Clark-St. bridge; this well-known
hotel has recently undergone extensive additions and improvements, and is now capable of accommodating a large
number of boarders and travelers; its location, at the Clark-St. bridge, gives to this house advantages equal to
any other; country people will find this the most comfortable and the cheapest house in the city.
J. RUSSELL, City Hotel, Chicago, Ill.; this establishment is located on the corner of Clark and Randolph streets,
in the centre of the most business part of the city, convenient to all the principal steamboat warehouses and within
a few rods of the northern, southern, eastern, and western stage offices, the post-office and reading room; the
sitting and lodging rooms are large and airy, furnished with bells, and well arranged for the accommodation of
families and single gentlemen; the prices of board are such as can not fail to be satisfactory; a convenient hair-dressing
room adjoining; warm, cold, and shower baths always in readiness.
JOHN BATES, Jr., Illinois Exchange, corner Lake and Wells sts., Chicago.
P. A. BARKER, Farmers' Exchange, corner of Lake St. and Wabash Ave.; the Farmers' Exchange has been removed to
the corner of Lake Street and Wabash Ave., opposite the American Temperance House, where the proprietor hopes to
have the pleasure of seeing his old friends and customers; excellent accommodations for the traveling public; good
stabling; dry yards, etc.; boarders accommodated at prices to suit the times.
C. W. COOK, American Temperance House, corner of Lake Street and Wabash Ave., near the steamboat landing, Chicago,
Ill. N. B.- Passengers and baggage carried to and from the steamboats free of charge.
DENNIS S. CADY, Lake-Street House (late Farmers' Exchange), 135-7 Lake Street; this establishment, having undergone
extensive repairs and additions, is now opened for the reception of the public; being located in the centre of
business, the Lake-Street House affords peculiar facilities for the accommodation of boarders and travelers especially,
and of persons from the country having business to transact in the city; excellent stabling, sheds, and yard, etc.,
in the rear of the house, for the accommodation of teams, etc.
JOHN MURPHY, United States Hotel; the subscriber would respectfully announce to his old friends and the public
generally, that he has returned to his old and popular stand, where he hopes, by unremitted attention to the comfort
and welfare of his guests, to receive that share of their patronage that his exertions may merit. The house has
been thoroughly renovated, cleansed, and painted, with a good yard and barn attached, the rooms are airy, pleasant,
and agreeable; his bar will be supplied with the choicest wines and liquors, his table with all the substantials
and delicacies of the season, his servants attentive and obedient, and he pledges himself that nothing shall be
wanting to render their stay pleasant and comfortable. Chicago, Jan. 1, 1844.
L. M. OSTERHOUDT, Sauganash Hotel, corner of Lake and Market sts., Chicago, Ill.; farmers will find the best accommodation
for their teams.
D. L. ROBERTS, Chicago Temperance House, LaSalle Street, nearly opposite the [State] bank building, Chicago, Ill.
SKINNER & SMITH, Mansion House, 84 and 86 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.; baggage taken to and from steamboats
free of charge.
THOMAS & WHEELOCK, the Washington Coffee-House, Lake Street, third door east of the Tremont House; this entirely
new and splendid house has been fitted up by the proprietors in the most modern and approved style; the bill of
fare will embrace every variety to be procured in this and eastern markets; hot meals can be had at all hours;
fresh oysters kept constantly on hand. The proprietors pledge themselves that nothing shall be wanting on their
part to give their customers entire satisfaction.
INSURANCE COMPANIES.
A. GARRETT, agent, Marine and Inland Insurance, agency of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company of the city
of New York in the City of Chicago; cash capital, $100,000; with notes subscribed on the Mutual plan for $350,000;
total, $450,000. Persons wishing to participate in the profits of this company, are informed that the company is
now prepared to make insurance on marine and inland risks, on terms favorable to the applicants, who are assured
that the company will be disposed to settle claims with such promptness and liberality as to warrant a large share
of the public patronage; the board of trustees have endeavored to furnish the insured the means both of safety
and profit, and they trust that when the plan for accomplishing this is investigated it will be found satisfactory.
Under the charter of the company the excess of certificates of earnings over $500,000 can be paid off successively,
which is a result that will be looked for in a reasonable time. Trustees: Walter R. Jones, Josiah L. Hale, George
Griswold, Jonathan Goodhue, Elisha Riggs, Henry Parish, Thomas Tileston, Henry Coit, Charles H. Russell, E. D.
Hurlbut, Jos. W. Alsop, jr., John C. Green, William S. Wetmore, Augustin Averil, Samuel T. Jones, Lowell Holbrook,
P. A. Hargous, Edward H. Gillilan, Meyer Gana, Wm. C. Pickersgill, Geo. T. Elliot, James McCall, Ramsay Crooks,
Edwin Bartlett, Caleb Barstow, A. P. Pillot, A. LeMoyne, Leonardo S. Suarez, Christopher R. Robert, Richard T.
Haines, Leory M. Wiley, Edmund Laffan, Daniel S. Miller, S. T. Nicoll, William F. Havemeyer, Josiah Lane, Joshua
J. Henry, William Sturgis, jr., Reuel Smith, A. A. Low; Walter R. Jones, president; Joshua L. Hale, vice-president.
December, 1843.
A. GARRETT, agent, Fire and Marine Insurance, agency of the National Insurance Company of the City of New York
in the City of Chicago. The above-named company have established an agency in the City of Chicago where they are
prepared to insure against loss or damage by fire, and also against loss or damage on goods and merchandize in
the course of transportation on the lakes, canal, or railroad. Directors: William G. Ward, John Bower, Stephen
Holt, Philip W. Engs, Wm. S. Slocum, Wm. W. Campbell, John F. Mackie, Marcus Spring, Jacob Miller, John Newhouse,
Samuel S. Doughty, John F. Butterworth; John Brouwer, president; James W. Savage, Secretary. December, 1843.
GARRETT & SEAMAN, general agency and commission store, in the four-story brick building on South-Water Street,
2d door from Clark Street. The undersigned give notice that they have formed a partnership, to commence on the
1st of May, 1844, under the name and style of Garrett & Seaman, for the transaction of a general agency and
commission business, both in Chicago and New York. They will attend to the purchase and sale of merchandise and
the sale of wheat, and all kinds of produce in the city of New York; Mr. Seaman is a resident of the city of New
York, and well acquainted with the business of purchasing and selling merchandise and produce, and will at all
times give his personal attention to any and all kinds of business entrusted to his care; the house in Chicago
will be ready to supply country merchants with all kinds of merchandise at NewYork prices, adding transportation
only. N. B.- Constantly on hand, marble mantels, tombs, monuments, head-stonts, table tops, etc.; they will on application
furnish articles in the above line at short notice. December, 1843.
G. S. HUBBARD, agent, Aetna Insurance Company of Hartford, Conn.; this well-known company is now prepared to take
risks against fire in the City of Chicago and its vicinity at low premiums.
GEORGE SMITH & CO., bankers and insurance brokers, (bank building), LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ill.
E. S. & J. WADS WORTH, agents, Hartford Fire-Insurance Company, 113 Lake Street, Chicago.
JEWELLERS, ETC.
V. FALLER, clock and watch maker, Dearborn Street, near the Tremont House, Chicago, Ill.
S. J. SHERWOOD, 144 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill., general dealer in gold and silver watches, clocks, jewelry, gold
safety-chains, gold fob-chains, gold spectacles, thimbles, pencil cases, breast pins, finger rings, silver spoons,
music boxes, card cases, pocket brushes, needles; watches and clocks repaired and warranted; cash paid for old
silver.
LAND AGENTS.
HENRY W. CLARKE, general land-agent, office on Clark Street, opposite City Saloon, Chicago, Ill. Will promptly
attend to the payment of taxes in Illinois and Wisconsin; redemption of land sold for taxes, etc., etc.
OGDEN & JONES, northwestern land-agency, general land-agents for the northwestern states and territories, office
on Kinzie Street, east of North Dearborn, Chicago, Ill. William B. Ogden, William E. Jones.
J. B. F. RUSSELL has established an office for the transaction of general land-agency at Chicago, for the payment
of taxes, purchase, or sale of lands, lots, etc., etc.
LOOKING-GLASSES.
D. & A. L. JACOBUS, wholesale and retail dealers in looking-glasses, clocks, Britannia ware, cutlery, etc.;
10 Clark Street, Chicago, Ill.; pictures and picture-frames of all sizes constantly on hand.
R. LYONS, 83 Lake Street, opposite the Mansion House, Chicago; wholesale and retail dealer in gilt and mahogany
framed looking-glasses, and looking-glass plates, clocks, and engravings; also manufacturer of portrait and picture
frames of every description. N. B.- Gilding of every description neatly executed at the shortest notice.
LUMBER MERCHANTS.
TARLETON JONES, dealer in Green-Bay lumber, foot of Clark Street, at the bridge, Chicago, Ill.
J. M. UNDERWOOD, lumber dealer, cor. of Lake and West-Water streets, a few rods north of the U. S. Hotel; a full
assortment of lumber, shingles, doors, sash, etc., constantly on hand.
MARKETS.
CLYBOURN & HOVEY, butchers, Clark Street, State Street, and Western Markets, Chicago, Ill.
A. FUNK, butcher, Fulton and Boston Markets, on Dearborn and Randolph streets.
ERI REYNOLDS, butcher and packer, Chicago, Ill., packing-house on the South-Branch, office at his residence on
Dearborn St. N.B.- Butchering and packing will be done at the shortest notice, and on as reasonable terms as at
any other establishment.
PAINTERS, ETC.
JOHN I. DOW & CO., ornamental, sign, house, and ship painters and glaziers, Clark Street, three doors south
of Lake, Chicago, Ill.
ALEXANDER WHITE, painter, and dealer in paints, oils, varnishes, glass, brushes, sash, etc., artists' brushes and
colors of every description; 165 Lake Street, Chicago; house, sign, ship, coach, and ornamental painting done with
neatness and despatch.
PECK & BOYCE, manufacturers of linseed oil, will at all times exchange oil or pay cash for flax seed at their
oil-mill on Madison Street, Chicago. Sheldon W. Peck, Leroy M. Boyce.
PHYSICIANS.
R. E. W. ADAMS, homoeopathic physician, office corner of Clark and Lake streets; residence, Clark Street, opposite
the public square.
DOCTOR BLANEY, professor of chemistry and materia medica in Rush Medical College, may be consulted professionally
at his office, on Clark Street near South-Water Street; Dr. B. will also attend to chemical analysis in all its
branches.
V. A. BOYER, physician and surgeon, justice-of-the-peace; office, Clark St., nearly opposite the City Hotel.
DANIEL BRAINARD, M.D., professor of anatomy and surgery in Rush Medical College; office on Clark Street, opposite
the post-office.
DOCTOR H. H. BRAYTON having established his residence permanently at Chicago, respectfully tenders his professional
services to the inhabitants of the city; twenty-five years study and practice, and constant application to professional
duties, he hopes will entitle him to the confidence of those who may demand his services. Fresh vaccine virus now
and always on hand; office and residence, on the east side of Clark Street, first door south of the Methodist church.
DOCTOR J. BRINKERHOFF, office, Clark Street, opposite public square; drug-store, 143 Lake Street.
DOCTOR EGAN can be consulted in private cases at his residence or office, but can not attend to out-door practice.
DOCTOR JOHN W. ELDRIDGE, office and residence on Randolph St., first door west of City Hotel.
DOCTOR BENJAMIN F. HALE, office, 185 Lake Street; residence, east side of Wells Street, one door south of Lake
Street.
M. L. KNAPP, M.D., professor of obstetrics, etc., in Rush Medical College, Chicago; may be consulted professionally
at the Mansion House, 82 Lake Street.
DOCTOR D. S. SMITH, office on Clark Street, two doors south of Lake, over J. B. F. Russell's land-agency office;
residence, LaSalle Street, opposite the First Baptist Church.
SADDLERY AND HARNESS.
SILAS B. COBB, general dealer in saddles, harnesses, trunks, valises, collars, whips, carpet bags, etc., etc.;
171 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
D. HORTON, saddle and harness manufacturer, and city carriage trimmer; saddles, harness, trunks, valises, carpet
bags, bridles, whips, etc., constantly on hand; all kinds of repairing done in the neatest manner and on the shortest
notice; Dearborn St., two doors north of Tremont House.
JAMES S. PAINE, saddle, harness, trunk, valise, and carpet-bag manufacturer; Dearborn Street, between Lake and
South-Water, Chicago; all kinds of jobbing in his line solicited; repairing done on the most reasonable terms and
at the shortest notice.
C. E. PECK, dealer in saddles, harness, trunks, valises, carpet-bags, bridles, martingales, whips, etc.; 164 Lake
Street, Chicago, Ill.; repairing done at short notice.
TAILORS AND DRAPERS.
S. BENEDIK, merchant tailor, 187 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.; a full assortment of dry goods, clothing, etc.,
constantly kept on hand, warranted of the best material and latest style.
ANDREW J. COX & CO., tailors, Clark Street, between Lake and South-Water streets.
HETTINGER & PETERMAN, tailors and drapers, South-Water Street, Chicago, Ill.; ready-made clothing of every
description constantly on hand; all orders punctually attended to; cutting and repairing done at short notice,
and on reasonable terms.
J. H. HODGSON, draper and tailor, Clark Street, opposite City Hotel.
H. H. HUSTED, draper and tailor, 97½ Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.; a large assortment of ready-made clothing
constantly on hand.
W. LOCK & CO., cheap clothing store, 125 Lake Street, corner of Lake and Clark streets, Chicago, Ill.
P. NEWBURGH, draper and tailor, 153 Lake Street; orders promptly attended to.
CHAS. TAYLOR, fashionable tailor, Clark Street, between Lake St. and post-office, Chicago, Ill.; would most respectfully
solicit a continuance of the liberal patronage hitherto extended to him, assuring his customers and the public
that he uses Francis H. Taylor's "mathematical principle of cutting garments," which is true in theory
and application, and produces better-fitting garments than can by any possibility be cut by any-other system. N.B.- The
French and New York fashions will be received monthly.
MISCELLANEOUS.
NORTON & TUCKERMAN, wholesale and retail dealers in dry goodsr groceries, hardware, lumber, and salt; 134
Lake Street; warehouse and lumber-yard, North-Water Street, north end of Clark-Street bridge; storage and commission.
DR. TEW, phrenological and magnetic examiner, at his residence, second house north of the Episcopal Church; may
be consulted in all cases of nervous or mental difficulty; the application of his remedies will enable him to relieve
or cure any case of monomania, insanity, or recent madness, where there is no inflammation or destruction of the
mental organs; his attention to the diseases of the nervous system, such as the St. Vitus' dance, spinal affections,
has resulted in some remarkable cures. Having been engaged for the last five years in teaching mental philosophy,
as taught by phrenology, together with his numerous phreno-magnetic experiments, enable him to give correct and
true delineations of mental dispositions of different persons; which will be every way profitable to all who wish
to understand the mysteries of their own natures, and how they may use their talents to the best advantage.
MRS. ATKINSON, milliner and dressmaker, ladies' own materials made up; Clark Street, opposite the post-office,
Chicago, Ill.
D. A. BARROWS & CO., manufacturers of and wholesale and retail dealers in confectionary, syrups, cakes, and
ice creams; 147 Lake St., Chicago.
J. B. BUSCH, blacksmith, corner of Randolph and Market streets; also-general dealer in groceries, provisions, liquors,
and fruit, Clark Street, Chicago, Ill.
JOHN BURGESS, carriage and wagon maker, Randolph St., Chicago, Ill.; orders in the above line promptly executed
on the most reasonable terms.
GEORGE F. FOSTER, sail-maker and general dealer in ship chandlery, groceries, paints, oils, nails, etc., South-Water
Street, Chicago, Ill.; bags and bagging, ropes, tar, pitch, oakum, sail-cloth, etc., constantly on hand.
THOMAS GEORGE, new tin, copper, and sheet-iron manufactory, 197 Lake Street, opposite the Illinois Exchange.
JEFFREY & BENTLY, shoeing smiths and horse farriers; shop on West-Water Street, between the United States Hotel
and J. M. Underwood's lumber yard. George Jeffrey, John Bently.
KILER K. JONES, periodical and agency office; kept constantly on hand, at the periodical depot on Clark Street,
three doors north of the post-office, all the new and cheap works of the day, such as periodicals, magazines, newspapers,
etc.; also agent for the New Mirror, and all the leading periodicals in this country; all orders promptly attended
to.
P. NICKALLS, livery, commission, and bait stable, corner of Wolcott and Kinzie streets, Chicago. N. B.- Job horses
and wagons furnished on reasonable terms.
PERKINS & FENTON, carriage and wagon making, inform the public that they are prepared to execute any orders
in the business above-mentioned on the most reasonable terms and on short notice; they are also-prepared to accommodate
the public with blacksmithing, and house, sign, and carriage painting. Their shops may be found on Randolph Street,,
opposite the public square. Chicago, Jan. 1, 1844.
PFUND & CO., Clark-Street bakery, between S.Water and Lake streets.
L. P. SANGER & CO., 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill., manufacturers and wholesale and retail dealers in hats,
caps, muffs, boas, buffalo coats, buffalo robes, buffalo overshoes, buckskin mitts; cash paid for all kinds of
furs.
CHRISTOPHER SEEBE, agent for Kelly's improved pumps, at the warehouse of Theron Pardee.
I. C. STEVENS, (sign of the three hats), hat, cap, and fur manufacturer, 10S Lake Street, Chicago; hats and caps
of all qualities and of the latest fashions to suit customers; also every variety of articles belonging to his
line of business, such as buckskin mittens, gloves, overshoes, umbrellas, gentlemen's neck stocks, life preservers,
and money and riding belts. N.B.- Hatters' stock and trimmings always on hand; buffalo robes for sale, wholesale
and retail; cash paid for furs and deer-skins.
J. W. NORRIS, general intelligence and agency office, Clark Street, opposite the Saloon (over Russell's land-office);
where situations will be procured for persons seeking different kinds of employment; clerks, book-keepers, overseers,
school teachers, mechanics, and laborers, cooks, waiters, porters, nurses, servant girls, etc., etc., promptly
supplied with places. Also, information given of property to be rented, and tenants obtained for the same; agencies
of all kinds promptly and faithfully attended to. Corrected register of the inhabitants of the city, in connection
with the general directory, at all times accessible to the public. New names enrolled and changes of business or
residence inserted without any charge.
WM. WHEELER & CO., dealers in stoves, hardware, cutlery, tin, sheet-iron, and copper ware; agents for the Hazard
Company's various sorts of powder; 145 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.; cash paid for furs and deer-skins, beeswax,
genshang, lead, and timothy seed.
H. O. STONE, 114 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill., wholesale and retail dealer in dry goods and groceries; 100 pcs fulled
cloth, ass'd colors; 50 bales sheeting, wicks and twine; 30 pcs broadcloths, ass'd colors; 3 cases hard times;
20 pcs cassimeres; 10 cases prints; 1000 lbs cotton yarn; 40 pcs flannel, ass'd colors; 60 pcs Ky. Jeans; 30 cases
boots and shoes; 30 pcs muslin de lanes and chusans; 40 pcs colored and lustring silks; 600 pcs seasonable ribbons
and artificial flowers; Tuscan silk and velvet bonnets; 100 kegs nails, sash, glass, and putty; 50 bbls dried peaches
and apples; a full cargo of wooden-ware; 100 chests, ½-chests, and caddies of tea; 100 bags coffee; 10 hhds
and 30 bbls sugar and molasses; a full assortment of family groceries. " He that would thrive, must either
hold or drive." Call and see. No charge for showing goods at 114 Lake Street; storage or South-Water Street;
cash advances made on produce left in store; cash paid at all times for wheat and flour.
EGAN'S sarsaparilla panacea, sold at Francis Stead's city drug store, 76 Lake Street. There are in the hands of
Dr. Egan private letters from our most respectable citizens containing accounts of some astonishing cures from
the use of this article, which can be seen at his office. We call the attention of the public to the advertisement,
which we commence this week, of Dr. Egan's Sarsaparilla Panacea. Being ourself a medical man, we may be permitted
to say that we are acquainted with Dr. Egan, and know him to be a man of science and of high standing in his profession.
We take him to be above quackery, and are confident he would not, if he could, palm a useless "nostrum upon
the public for the sake of paltry gain. The Sarsaparilla has long been celebrated for its restorative and renovating
effects in chronic disease, and there is no doubt that Dr. Egan has succeeded in giving a more effective and successful
combination than it has before received. We believe it worthy of confidence, and recommend its trial by the afflicted.- St.
Charles Patriot.
ELLIS & FERGUS, general book and job printers, Saloon Buildings, Clark Street, Chicago; every variety of book
and job printing done in the best style and on the most moderate terms; blanks printed to order and kept constantly
on hand. William Ellis, Robert Fergus.
JOHN WENTWORTH, editor, publisher, and proprietor Chicago Democrat, office, 107 Lake Street, third story; printing,
job, fancy, and book work of all kinds executed with neatness and despatch; blanks of all kind constantly on hand.
[FIRST EDITION.]
If YOU can supply an omission, correct a name, add a date or a number, please forward same for insertion in a later
edition, to ROBERT FERGUS, Compiler, Blanks furnished on application. 185 Illinois St., Chicago.
DIRECTORY
OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO,
FROM AUGUST TO DECEMBER,
1843.
City Limits:- North of Twenty-second Street; east of Wood; and south of North Avenue.
Ward Boundaries : 1st- South-Side east of Clark Street and north of Twenty-second Street; 2d- South-Side west of
Clark Street to the River and north of Twenty-second Street; 3d- South of W.-Randolph Street to Twenty-second Street,
west of the River to Wood Street; 4th- West of the River 10 North-Wood Street, north of West-Randolph Street to
West-North Ave.; 5th- North-Side, north of the River to North Avenue, west of North-Clark Street; 6th- North-Side,
north of the River to North Avenue, east of North-Clark Street.
Remarks.- It has been the design to include in this Directory the names of all persons and all firms in the City;
to arrange them alphabetically; and in every instance to give the correct spelling. There may be cases, however,
where names may have been accidentially inserted in the wrong connection, and cases also of incorrect orthography.
Abbreviations, which occur only in a very few words, will readily be understood: bet stands for between; res for
residence; bds for boards; Rand for Randolph; Mad for Madison; Wash for Washington; etc. The word street in most
instances is omitted. The place of business uniformly precedes the residence.
Very few of the buildings were numbered, except Lake Street; the numbers now given are those of the present, (1896).
The deaths in most cases, except as otherwise stated, occurred in Chicago.
Surnames A-B-C-D-E-F-G
Surnames
H-I-J-K-L-M-N-O
Surnames
P-Q-R-S-T-U-V-W-Y-Z
Back to the Index Page
