14 DESCRIPTION AND
latter under the name of the Chicago Express, being published
daily. These papers, together with the Prairie Farmer, Agricultu-
  ral; the Western Citizen, Abolition; the North-Western"Baptist,
Baptist; and the Better Covenant, Universalist, which Intve since
been started,'are ably conducted, and have an extensive circulation.
  The year 1837, is especially memorable in the annals of Chicago,
as the period of protested notes. It was during this year, that the
consequences of speculation, which had hitherto operated most
favorably for the West, were experienced to a most ruinous extent.
Chicago was intimately connected wiih speculation, through all
its progress. It was in its incipient stages, at the period of the com-
  mencement of the City; but a disposition and tendency to it was
apparent even then. It raged with great violence during '35-6,
and a portion of '37, at which time it gave color and direction to
most business transactions.
  The history of this singular delusion is replete with instructive
incidents. It seems unaccountable to the more sober judgment of
these times, how men, under any circumstances, could have been
led so far astray—how prudence, foresight, and sagacity could, to
such an extent, have lost their dominion and control over the human
rnind. But so it was. The rapid and unprecedented rise in the
value of real estate, and the certainty of that rise, exerted a most
seductive influence; very few were found able to resist the tempta-
  tion; all classes of people ultimately abandoning the usual avoca-
  tions of society, devoted themselves exclusively to speculation, and
hazarded their all upon this sea of chance. This wild spirit found
its way ultimately into the halls of legislation, and controlled the
conduct and policy of states, as it had done that of individuals.
It was under the influence of this spirit that those stupendous
schemes of internal improvement originated in many of t!;e new
states, which have entailed upon subsequent times the evils of debt
—taxation—and in some cases, national disgrace and dishonor.—
Speculation led, in short, to the perpetration, on all hand^, of acts
of folly and absurdity, seldom before heard of.. The sources of
wealth being regarded as inexhaustible, naturally created extrava-
  gant ideas of prosperity, and afforded to all the apjrarent means of
indulging in every species of expenditure. It would be useless to
follow'speculation through its stages, as one act of absurdity suc-
  ceeded another in rapid succession.—Are not these times and their
consequences written in effuceless characters upon the meuiory of
every reader ?
  But the day of wnth and retribution was at hand. Confidence
and credit, too long abused, refused any longer to lend their aid. The
unfortunate victims of the delusion were suddenly awakened from
their dream of wealth trt the certainty of-almost universal bank-
  ruptcy and ruin. Thousands suddenly called upon to investigate
the condition of their affairs, which, in the excitement of the mo-
  ment, no one thought it necessary to attend to, found themselves
involved to the extent of thousands and hundreds of thousands of
dollars, and their real estate, from which alone the means of pay-
  ment could come, depreciated in value, in, fact unsaleable at any
price. Thousands, from affluence, were reduced— without warning
or preparation—to poverty ; some struggled for a time with their
destuj-/, bu: the evil day cair.b at last ; and scarcely one. ultimately,
