  DESCRIPTION AND
Lake exclusively within the United States—being the termina-
  tion, on the one hand, of the navigation of the Lakes, and on the
other, of the Illinois and Michigan Canal—affording great natu-
  ral facilities for a harbor, by means of Chicago River and its branches
—the excelling site for a capacious ship basin in the very heart of
the town, at the junction of said branches—having dependent upon
it a region of country vast in extent," and of extraordinary fertility,
it must always be the dividing point between two great sections of
the Union, where the productions of each must meet and pay tri-
  bute. It is susceptible of the easiest demonstration that the route
by the L:ikes, the Canal and the Western Rivers, when once the
channels of communication are completed, will, for cheapness,
safety arid expedition, possess advantages superior to every other.
Among the advantages of this route, the climate, so favorably adapted
to the preservation of produce, deserves especiaj notice.
  The commercial interests, then, of the ^ast, and especially of the
great valley of the West, will be intirr aly,connected with Chica-
  go, as a place of transhipment and deposit—and the value and
amount of the trade in produce, in lumber, salt, and in every des-
  cription of merchandize which will centre here, is fceyond our pre-
  sent powers of computation, and can only be measured by the future
wants and capabilities of the country.
Those important works—the harbor and canal—upon which so
many interests depend, justly demand the most serious conside-
  ration; and it is highly gratifying to allude to their present most
flattering prospects. It is now reduced almost to a certainty, that
Chicago, after the expenditure of so much solicitude, and a large
amount of money, is speedily to be furnished with a Safe, commodi-
  ous and permanent harbor. Under the supervision of our present
able superintendent, the work is prosecuted with a degree of vigor
that must be crowned with success.
The principal difficulty encountered during the progress of the
harbor has been occasioned by the deposition of sand and the for-
  mation of bars at its mouth. The plans heretofore adopted to sur-
  mount this difficulty have failed upon trial, and are now abandoned.
Two plans have been proposed the present season, which have at-
  tracted considerable attention. One of these, suggested by Captain
McLellan, the present superintendent, recommends the construc-
  tion of a pier north of the present ones, at a distance from them
greater than the length of the present bar, and is based upon the
supposition that the sand would form a bar around its head, and not
reach the entrance of the harbor. The other plan, which has been
adopted, and is now being carried into effect, proposes the extension
of the. north pier, in the form of a circle, a distance of 990 feet,
•which will bring it into the line of the original direction of that pier.
A good channel for vessels of every class will then exist from the
head of the south pier, around the bar, that pior being extended no
farther into the Lake. If this plan succeed, Chicago will be fur-
  nished with a harbor, not inferior to any on the Lakes.
We have the most flattering assurance thM the work upon onr
other and not less important branch of public improvement—the Illi-
  nois and Michigan Canal—will be resumed the coming season, un-
  der the operation of the late law of the Legislature. The history
of this great work, which was contemplated from the first settle-
