8 DESCRIPTION AND
the discoverers of other portions of our country, we have failed to
pay suitable tribute to the memory of these first pioneers in the
region we inhabit—these pilgrim fathers of the West. 1C, to pene-
  trate thousands of miles inio the heart of a continent, bidding adieu
for months to the comforts of home, braving hunger and thirst, and
the savage, can be said to command our admiration and gratitude,
then these m'en have distinguished claims upon us who are now
reaping the fruits of all their toils and sufferings. The earliest of
these expeditions, as well as the most distinguished, were those of
Marquette and La Salle. The former occurred in the year 1673,
and resulted in the discovery of the Mississippi, the original object
and design of the expedition. To this expedition, is probably to be
ascribed the honor of paying the first visit to Chicago, it being the
prevailing opinion that it passed through here on its return to
Canada, ascending the Illinois River and crossing to Michigan.
Perrot, by some writers, is believed to have been here a few years
earlier. The story of Marquette, who voluntarily remained among
the Illinois Indians, and found at last a solitary grave on the eastern
shore of Michigan, at the mouth of a river bearing his name, is
familiar to all.
  With the expedition of La Salle, in 1680, Chicago cannot be so
clearly identified. This expedition, however, was productive of
more important consequences to the West, generally, than the pre-
  ceding one. The Mississippi was navigated to its mouth, forts at
favorable points, erected ; the shores of the great Lakes thoroughly
explored ; and permanent settlements, at several points, commenced.
The expeditions which succeeded those of Marquette and La Salle,
were of minor importance, being principally designed to sustain the
colonies already planted, and to prosecute the traffic which had
previously been entered into with the natives. Although no posi-
  tive testimony exists on the subject, it is highly probable that Chi-
  cago was frequently visited by the French, during their passages to
and from the West. Having once been here, they must ever after
have appreciated the advantages of the situation, both in a com-
  mercial and military point of view. Their sagacity in these matters
seldom failed them. In their magnificent scheme of a chain of mili-
  tary posts, connecting Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, Chicago,
doubtless, formed an important link, being at the head of the Lakes,
an:! affording so many'facilities to attain the interior.
  The French Colonies in the West, sustained by emigration, con-
  tinued from the first to prosper and (loutish. Undcr-lhe general
name of Louisiana, which they assumed at a later period.,llicy wore
made the- frequent subject of grants from the crown, to Individuals
ai)d companies. About 1717, they are foued the property of the
celebrated Mississippi Company, which, at the time, gave rise to
much speculation throughout Europe. At the close of the French,
and Indian War, Louisiana was transferred, by treaty, to the Eng-
  lish. During the Revolution, the Territory comprising the present
State of Illinois, become, by conquest, the property of Virginia, by
which State it was erected into'a County, under the name of the
County of Illinois.
  Virginia ceded it to the General Government at the time of the
cession of Western lands, by the Eastern States. In ]800, the pre-
  sent State of Illinois became a part of Indiana Territory, having a
