  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 13
with the greatest ease. The West suddenly became the centre of
men's thoughts and wishes, and Chicago, as the most important
point in the West, the goal to which all directed their aspirtions.
  Such are some of the prominent causes which may be said, at
the period referred to, to have given the first impulse to the City.
That it grew and prospered as it did, under their operation, will
excite no surprise—the result could not well have been otherwise.
Its progress, accordingly, until about '37 has no parallel—it was
rapid in the extreme. Buildings went.up as if by magic—stores
were opened by the hundred, and speedily filled with merchandize;
people of every calling and pursuit in life, laborers, mechanics, and
professional men, influenced by a common purpose—the hope of
success in their several spheres of action—came together here, and
entered at once with a zeal and activity into the schemes of improve-
  ment projected. The sale of Canal lots in 1830 hns been already
mentioned. ' In 1833, a great Indian payment was held here, near
the present site of the Lake House. In the latter part of this year,
the work on the harbor was commenced—and during the same year,
the present Light-house was erected, the old one having fallen
down. In 1835, the population of the place was said to amount to
5,500, a computation which probably included transitory persons, a
great many of whom were here at the time. The actual popula-
  tion, however, that year, could not have been much less than 3000.
In 1836, another sale of Canal lots took place, which was attended
with much excitement, and occasioned a large collection of people
from distant quarters. The prices were extravagantly high. In
1836, a branch of the State Bank was located here. On the 4th of
July, 1831, the ceremony of breaking the first ground on the Canal,
took place at Canal Port, in presence of a large concourse of spec-
  tators. During the winter of'36-7, the act to incorporate the City,
passed the State Legislature; and in April succeeding, the first elec-
  tion under the Charter was held, which resulted in the choice of
W. B. OODEN to the office of Mayor. The growth cf commerce,
thus far, kept pace with everything else. The community were
dependent, during the first few years, entirely upon supplies from
abroad; this, together with the great influx of emigration, and the
travel which began to set in this direction,, gave employment to a
considerable amount of shipping, and Steamboats and Schooners
began to ply regularly between this port and Buffalo.
  During this brief but exciting period, the community fortunately
found time to devote some attention to things of greater importance
than the accumulation of this world's goods. Before or during
1836, as many as six Churches had been organized, and suitable
buildings provided for their accommodation. ' These Churches,
together with such as have since been -established, have always
received a liberal support, and are now in a flourishing condition.
Neither was the subject of education wholly neglected. The school
section, which fortunately lay contiguous to the City, and was pro-
portionably valuable, was disposed of in 1834, and the avails applied
to the support of Common Schools. Means for the diffusion of
general intelligence were also provided.
  In 1834, John Calhoun commenced the publication of the Chi-
  cago Democrat; and:in the following year, Thos. O. Davis esta-
  blished the Chicago American, both of which papers still exist; the
  2
