  NORRISV
CHICAGO DIRECTORY.
REMARKS.—Ii lias been the design to include in this Directory the names
of all persons and all firms in the City, to arrange them alphabetically;
and in every instance to give the correct spelling There may be cases
however, where names may have been accidentally inserted in the wrong
connection, and cases also of incorrect orthography—particularly where
persons have been unable to spell, and the nai'ie has been vvritlen from
the sound. Abbreviations, which occur only in a very few words, will
readily be understood; b stands for between; Rand for Randolph; Mad
for Madison; Wash for Washinglon, &c. The word street, in some
instances, is omitted. The place of business uniformly precedes the
residence.
immediate measures will be taken to procure the names of all persons who
have been accidentally omitted in this volume; a complete list, corrected
from time to time, will be kept at the Genera} Intelligence Office, where
the public can at all times get correct information in regaril to the names,
business, and residence of every inhabitant of theCity. Persons finding
themselves excluded, and persons coming to the City hereafter, are re-
  quested to call at the above place and have their names enrolled.
Very few of our buildings are numbered, the necessity, however, of this
can be avoided, if persons occupying buildings permanently, will put
themselves to the trifling trouble and expense of putting their names oil
their doors.
  ABBOTTALLEN.
Abbott, Thomas L. clerk at C. Mann's, residence same
Abbott, VV. clerk at Ward Rathbone's, residence same
AckhofT, Nicholas, teamster, res Canal st. b Lake and N.: Water
Ackley, B. F. of ComstocU & A. residence City Refrectory
Adams,- Mrs. laundress, Clark street, b N. Water and Kinzie
Adams, George, laborer, at J. L. Gray's
Adams, George, tailor at O. Taylor's, Chicago Temperance House
Adams, R. E. W, physician, corner of Clark and Lake streets,-
. -house Clark street (See card)
Adams, W. H. & Co. boot and shoe dealers, 138 Lake st (See card)
Adams, W. H. of W. H. A. & Co. residence iasalle. street, b
  Washington and Madison
Adsit, James M. carpenter, house Monroe st. near Dearborn st
Aiken, Samuel, shoemaker at Wm. Wheeler's
Albie, C. P. clerk at Fulton market
Allen, Geo. P. ship carpenter, residence at N. C. Walton's
Allen, James F. carpenter, house Illinois street, b. Pine and Sand
Allen, J. P. & Co. lumber merchants en Canal street, 3d Ward
Allen, J. P. of J. P. A. & Co., house River street, 1st Ward
