00 COE—CRAFT. •
Coe, ^Thomas, cabinet maker, corner of Lake and Franklin sts res
  Sauganash
Coe,, cabinet maker, at Manahan & Jacobus' res Thomas
  Manahan's
Coffin, Mrs. res Illinois st. b Pine and Sand
Cole, Parker M. of Bowen & C. Lake st. near State, res E. Uowen's
Coleman, Ira, shoemaker, at Dan. Taylor's, res 215 Lake st
Collier, Charles A. clerk in the land office, res corner of Clark and
  Kinzie sts
CoUins, George, of S. B. Collins & Co. res S. B. Collins
Collins, James H. of Butterfield & C. res Lake st. near Wabash st
Collins, Patrick, waiter, at the Farmers' Exchange
Collins, S. B. & Co. boot, shoe, and leather store, 140 Lake st
Collins, Samuel B. of S. B. C. & Co., res Washington st. b Dear-
  born and State sts
Comstock & Ackley, dry goods and groceries, 82 Lake st
Comstock, J. D. clerk and law student, at Arnold & Ogden's
. v Comstock, J. S. of C. & Ackley, res city refectory
Congrave, John, shoemaker, at J. E. Ware's
Connell. John, laborer, Wolcott st. b Water & Kinzie sts
Conolly, John, laborer, res Kinzie st. b Clark and Lasalle sts
Connor, James A. at Sylvester Marsh's
Connor, Patrick, laborer, res Lake st. b Water and Canal sts
Connor, Thomas, cabinet maker, corner of Lake and Franklin sts
  res Sauganash
Constantine, Patrick, laborer, residence b Michigan and Illinois sts
  5th ward
Cook, Chas. W. of C. & Surdam, res American Temperance House
Cook, Geo. barkeeper, at American Temperance House res same
Cook, Isaac, land agent, corner of Franklin and Randolph sts
Cook, John, tailor, res Jefferson st. b Randolph and \Vashington sts
Cook, Josiah P. baker, res Michigan avenue
Cook & Surdam, American Temperance House, Lake st. c Wabash
Cook, Thomas, teamster, Desplaines st
Cooke, A.
Cooke, Horatio, turner, res Franklin st. b Lake and S Water sts
Cooley, James, mason, res Washington Hall
Corbin, D. H. ship carpenter, res b State and Clark sts. S of Jackson
Corey, John, res 4th ward
Corl, Patrick, laborer, corner of Kinzie and Lasalle sts
Cornmayer, Benhard, tailor, Clark st. b Lake and N. Water sts
Couch, Iia, proprietor of the Tremont House, corner of Lake and
  Dearborn sts
Couch, James, res Tremont House
Coushlin, Bryan, blacksmith, residence Randolph st. b Franklin
  and Madison sts
Courmaye--, Brans, laborer, res Canada Home
Courtin,' Henry, sailor, res N. Water st. b Dearborn and Wolcott sts
Covey, , carpenter
Cowan, George W. blacksmith, Randolph st. b Clark and Lasalle sts
Cowens, Thomas, laborer, res Water st. b Canal and Clinton
Cox, Andrew J. t-ailor, Clark st. b Lake and S. Water sts residence
  Mansion House
Craft, George W. shoemaker, at J. B. Mitchell's
