  PREFACE.
acquainted with the difficulties in the way of preparing the first Directory
for a new city. Such persons would probably be more surprised to find it
in every respect perfect. Nothing 1ms intentionally been left out, that could
add either to the interest or value of the work. -
  The greatest exertion has been made, to give the names of Germans and
other Old Country people, correctly. Notwithstanding this, mistakes will
deublless be discovered in the orthography of these names, owing to the
Tact, that inany are unable to spell their own name?, in English. It is
hoped, however, that instances of this kind will not be found to be nume-
  rous. In subsequent editions of the work the author hopes to be able to
avoid them altogether, .and also to give the names of such persons as are
not included in this volume.
  Chicago, it is to b,e remembered,is yet in its infancy, and subject to fluc-
  tuation in its population and business, more so than larger and older cities.
So far as this is true, a Directory will be of less utility. It is believed,
however, that this inconvenience is diminishing, and will be lees felt here-
  after. Our citizens are becoming sensible of the importance of fixed habi-
  tations, and places of business—and will speedily take measures to secure
to themselves the benefits and advantages to be derived therefrom. This,
to a considerable extent, has been effected the present season. Nearly
three-fourths of our population will hereafter, at least for many years, be
permanently located. Hoping that the book may be made in many ways
to subserve a useful purpose, and prove the means of advancing, to some
extent, the interest of our young but flourishing City, it is most respectfully
submitted to the public. Our citizens have always been characterised for
their liberality and public spirit. They will not, in this instance, forfeit
their claims to this distinction, but will generously, and cheerfully lend
their aid and co-operation, to sustain an undertaking, designed to promote
and advance the interests of the whole.
To those gentlemen who have encouraged the work, both as subscribers
and advertisers, and those who have afforded information, and contributed
their advice in furtherance of the design of the publication, the author
would, in conclusion, tender his most sincere thanks.
CHICAGO, December 1, 1843.
