  PREFACE.
THE DiKEcronv OF CHICAGO, now presented to the public, may be
regarded as an experiment. It must be decided by those Cor whose use
and benefit it lias been prepared, whether it is required, and can be sus-
  tained. The sudden rise, and unexampled prosperity of Chicago, have
created a curiosity in regard to its early history, and the incidents connected
with its rise and progess, which considerations of interest, if nothing else,
impel us to embrace every suitable opportunity to gratify. It is believed,
that heretofore the sources of information have been altogether inadequate
to accomplish this purpose. While the most strenuous exertions have been
made, in other places, by misrepresentation ^and downright falsehood, in
regard to our circumstances and condition, to induce emigration to stop
short or to pass by us, and to divert capital and enterprise into other and
foreign channels; very little or nothing has been done on our part,'to
remedy the evil, and disabuse the public mind abroad, of the false impres-
  sions thus engendered. Relying upon the reality which the experience of
every day presents to us, of our condition—upon what we know ourselves,
of the never failing sources of our prosperity, we have been comparatively
indifferent in regard to the opinion of others, and blind to the effect of that
opinion upon our own interest. The ignorance prevailing at the East,
even in those cities with which we have the most intimate commercial
relations, in regard to the size, business, and resotires of Chicago, has been
a matter of surprise to all whose attention has been calhed to the fact.
The present is a most important juncture in our affairs. Our prospects are
brightening—our harbor is nearly completed—the work on our canal shortly
to be resumed —the credit of our state daily improving—and the finances of
our City in a most flourishing condition. Our citizens will, we hope, for-
  ever be exempt from the burdens of heavy taxation. Never were the in-
  ducements to emigrate and settle here, greater than at the present time.
It has been thought, that a Directory, containins, in addition to the matter •
usually introduced into such works, a brief historical and statistical account
of the City, may, independent of the benefit which our citizens will derive
from it, in the transaction of business, be made to subserve the additional
purpose of conveying to the public abroad a correct impression of the City,
in almost every particular.
The utmost difficulty has been experienced, while preparing the histo---
rical and statistical parts of the work, in procuring facts and statements from
authentic sources. Consequently, those parts are less full and perfect than
they were originally'intended to be—much less so than the author would
have made them. Errors and omissions will doubtless be discovered through-
  out the work—no apologies, however, will be necessary to those who are
  88\083
