  DESCRIPTION
  HISTORICAL SKETCH.
  CHICAGO, Cook County, Illinois, is situated on the South-
  western shore of Lake Michigan, at the head of Lake navigation, in
lat. 41 deg., 45 sec., North, and* long. 10 deg., 45 sec. West. The
site of the City occupies a level prairie, on both sides of the majn
stream, and the North and South Branches of Chicago River, and
covers an area of about three and a half miles in length. North arid
South, and two and a half in breadth, East and West, about a mile
and a half square of which is already regularly built upon, and the
streets opened and graded. The streets are regularly laid out, pa-
  rallel and at right angles to the Lake, and are wide and spacious.
There are several extensive blocks of brick buildings, principally
occupied as business houses and public offices, three and a half and
four stories in height. The dwellings are principally of wood,
many of them, however, very fine specimens of correct architecture.
The portion of the City extending several miles along the shore of
the Lake, is sandy, and consequently at all seasons, dry. The por-
  tion removed from the Lake partakes of the character of all level
prairie, Itoing in the spring and fall wet and muddy. The site of the
City being a plain, does not afford, either from the Lake or the sur-
  rounding country, a very interesting field of vision. Chicago River
and its branches, which run through the heart of the City, and ad-
  mit at nil seasons, vessels of every class, navigating the Lake, some
distance into the interior, afford peculiar facilities for a harbor, and
give to Chicago advantages, in a commercial point of view, unsur-
  passed by any City in the West. The Illinois and Michigan Canal,
which is shortly to be completed, will add greatly to the natural ad-
vantages of Chicago, making it a principal point, and necessarily a
place of transhipment on the great Northern route connecting the
Atlantic Stntes with the valley of the Mississippi. The City is
bouiuJcd on the South and West by a prairie, varying from ten to
twelve inijes in width, some portion of which is high, and of a very
superior Duality. It is surrounded in every direction, by a country
the most productive in the world, already brought into a state of
successful cultivation, and sending to its market annually, a vast
annum of produce of every description for sale, exchange for goods,
or shipment, r,s the case may be. The climate is healthy and salu-
  brious, as much so as any in the West. In 1837, Chicago became
  1
