18
  DESCRIPTION AND
In conclusion of our subject, it may be proper to refer more par-
  ticularly to some important considerations and facts connected with
the present condition of Chicago, hitherto only incidentally alluded
to.
The city, for some time past, has been considerably embarrassed
with debt,s in consequence of the necessity which has existed of
borrowing money to carry on its works of improvement. The ex-
  isting liabilities of the city amount to $8977.55, viz. : bonds to
Strachan <te Scott, $5000; bonds for Clark Street Bridge, §3000;
bonds for barrier to the Lake, and interest, 8977.55. The increas-
  ing revenues derived from taxation and other sources will soon afford
the means to extinguish these liabilities entirely. The tax of the
present year, at the rate of assessment of this year, amounts to
$7852.45 ; the school tax, at half a mill per cent., to $685.24. A
large amount of city property, which heretofore has been unpro-
ductiver will, the next year, become taxable, particularly the canal
lands and the reservation. The amount of the tax for the coming
year, unless a reduction should take place, may safely be estimated
at $12,000. In addition to this, there is now in the treasury,
unappropriated, *$1854, and the current expenses-paid. The
management of the fiscal affairs of the city, by our present
common council, is entitled to the highest praise. The finan-
  cial ability of the mayor has been recently tested in the ma-
  nagement of a negotiation at New York, by which a reduction of
three per cent, has been effected upon the interest of the largest
debt of the city, and may be regarded as equivalent, to a new loan.
The credit of the city is now established upon a permanent foundation,
and cannot be easily shaken. City scrip for some time has been at par.
Our common schools are worthy of especial notice. They are
sustained in part by the school fund, and in part by taxation. The
fund originally amounted to about $39,000 ; but nearly one half of
this amount has been-lost by injudicious loans. These schools are
justly the pride of the city, and the interest which is manifested
in them is an evidence of the importance which the community at-
  taches to education. We have also a medical college chartered by
the Legis4ature in 1837, and several schools sustained by private
munificence. Independent of these, we have several other institu-
  tions, which are exerting a beneficial influence. Among them,
the Mechanics' Institute and the Young Men's Association are.-
prominent in importance. These institutions, while sustained as
they have been hitherto, will be both useful and ornamental to the
city. Both of them have libraries, containing;, in the aggregate,.
about 2500 volumes. The Mechanics' institute has a department
in the Prairie Farmer, devoted exclusively to ihe interrsls of the
mechanical arts—the Young Men's Association a reading room,
•where most of the publications of the day ;ire regularly received,
and accessible to the public. There is, in addition to these libraries,
a circulating library, containing about 1500 volumes. We have
other societies designed to meet the intellectual wants of the com-
munityi among which may be mentioned the Chicago Lyceum—
the oldest literary society in the place. Our theatre—a very pretty
one—has been in operation the past season, and met with some
encouragement; but it must be confessed that, at present, tlie pros-
  pects of the drama are not flattering.
