12 DESCRIPTION AND
  One of the^e houses, formerly the property of the Fur Company,
was, until a short time past, occupied by Col. Beaubien. About 80
rods to the south of that, stood a house, once occupied by Colonel
Owings, but since washed away by the Lake. A house, known as
"Cobweb Castle," on block No. 1, was formerly the abode of Dr.
Alexander Wolcott.
  The dwelling of Mr. John Kinzie stood East^f the Lake House.
A log building at the corner of Dearborn and South Water Streets,
and the once celebrated tavern of Mr. Mark Beaubien, on the site
of the Sauganash. generally known as the Eagle, together with a
building on block 14, and a cabin, occupied by. Robinson, the In-
  dian Chief at Wolf Point, constituted all the buildings, except the
Fort, to be found here in 1832. Sometime this year, however,
Kobert A. Kinzie built a store at Wolf Point, the first frame build-
  ing in Chicago. la 1834, several brick buildings were erected.
  The commerce of the place, up to this period, was equally insig-
  nificant. In fact, there was none, unless the traffic of the Fur Com-
  pany, can be dignified with that name. Vessels occasionally ven-
  tured here, but so seldom, that the arrival of a schooner was an
event of no little moment, and created a sensation throughout the
cotpraunity. The year 1832, may then be regarded as the period
from which to date the commencement of the City. Many causes,
the Indian war among them, conspired, about this time, to bring
Chicago into general notice. What was called the " Western
Fever," had begun to rage generally, throughout the country.
Thousands were flocking from the East, to seek homes in the West.
The first premonitions of the speculating mania, had manifested
themselves. Eligible sites for'towns and cities, were sought out,
and eagerly appropriated. The superior advantages of Chicago, in
this period of general enquiry, when enterprise was universally
aroused, and incited by the hope of sudden wealth, could not long
escape public attention.
The attention of Congress had been called to the importance and
necessity of a harbor, and an appropriation was confidently relied
upon at the next session. Gen. Scott, who explored Hie country
during the Indian war, took a lively interest in this work, and ad-
  dressed a letter in relation to it, which was subsequently laid be-
Ibre Congress. The construction of the Illinois and Michigan
Canal, had also been finally resolved upon by the State legislature.
Active measures were being tak-en to survey the different routes,
and to estimate the cost of the various plnns proposed. Hence the
commencement, and completion of this important work at no distant
day, might confidently be relied upon. The resources of the State,
too, were beginning to be more generally known, and belter ap-
  preciated. The most alluring reports of the character of the soil
—its productiveness—the facilities for making farms on our prairies
—together with the salubrity of the climate, were circulated far and
wide. The most strenuous exertions were made, and with the most
signal success, to promote emigration. Enterprise, stimulated by
interest, and the hope of gain, was aroused, calling forth and con-
  centrating upon this one object, .all the resources and capabilities of
the age. Capital was enlisted, and credit and unlimited confidence
invoked to its aid. Money, owing to excessive bank, and even pri-
  vate issues, was abundant, and loans to any amount were effected
