  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 15
survived the catastrophe. The comparatively small number of
those who did finally escape the ordeal, it has been observed were
indebted more to chance and good luck than to any unusual endow-
  ment of prudence and sagacity. Thft ablest business men of the
age—those in whose judgment and capacity in ordinary times we
should unhesitatingly repose the most implicit confidence, ventured
as far and hazarded as much as any in this dangerous gome.
  To Chicago, iu an especial degree, was the stroke which was thus
inflicted upon the business interests of the country injurious and
calamitous. It was to Iter a season of mourning and desolation.
Many of her most business and enterprising citizens were insolvent—
all, to a greater or less extent, embarrassed in their circumstances.
She had gone on hitherto in a state of uninterrupted prosperity—no-
thins had thus far occurred to check the progress of improvement.
Could thatstateof prosperity have continued, Chicago would, by this
time, have ranked among the proudest cities of the land. But ca-
  lamity came suddenly and unexpectedly ; and, for a time, she
quailed under its effects.
  But she w,\s not, and could not be entirely prostrated. Her
position was roo favorable, and her redeeming powers too abundant
to permit her very long to be seriously affected by any calamity,
however great. She had, in common with the west, gained much
by speculation. What had been accomplished could not be un-
  done. Her works of improvement survived—her population was
left to her, and more than all her great and inexhaustible natural re-
  sources remained to bear her on to the consummation of her high
destiny. Her citizens returned to their habits of industry and eco-
  nomy, from which the force of evil example had seduced them.
Her business men, taught a severe lesson by the past, bent all iheir
energies, and caljed into requisition all their experience to build up
their injured credit, and to restore their business to a safe and per-
  manent foundation. The consequences began gradually to develop
themselves. But little was gained during '38-9; but in '40, things
assumed a more favorable aspect, and since that time the increase
of business and population has been most rapid. This will be
more fully illustrated by a reference to the census of different peri-
  ods, and to the tabular statements of the amount, value and charac-
  ter of the export and import trade of the place during each year,
contained in another part of this volume.
  It is with feelings of pride and satisfaction that the friends of
Chicago can refer to the experience of the past six years, as furnish-
  ing an enduring monument to the industry, enterprise and persever-
  ance of her people, and as establishing, beyond controversy, the ex-
  istence and permanency of her sources of prosperity. If, with an
impoverished community, at a period of general prostration of the
business interests of the country, under the pressure of heavy mu-
  nicipal and enormous State liabilities, with resources comparatively
undeveloped, and the works of public improvement unfinished,
Chicago has accomplished so much, what may not reasonably be
expected when these and all obstacles are removed from her way?
  A glance at her geographical position will convince the most
sceptical that Chicago is but the nucleus about which is destined to
grow up, at no remote period, one of the most important commer-
  cial towns in the West. Situated on the waters of the only great
