  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 19
The book making and publishing business has been commenced
Under favorable auspices. In illustration of the condition of this
department of trade, we may allude to the third volume of Mr.
SCAMMON'S REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT, printed by
Messrs. ELLIS & FERGUS, and now about ready for publication.
The fact that the execution of this volume is equal, if not superior
to the two former ones, which were issued from two of the best
.presses of the East, is highly creditable to our city, and must be
grajifying to the profession generally.
In facilities for the accommodation of the travelling public, Chi-,
cago has made great progress. In early times our inns were mise-
  rable in the extreme. Now we have eighteen hotels and houses of
public entertainment, some of them large and splendid establish-
  ments, not inferior to any in the West. The great amount of
travel passing through here during the season of navigation renders
tavern keeping a very profitable branch of business.
An expensive staging business has grown uphere, and may be De-
  ferred to as an instance of enterprise and public spirit on the part of
those engaged in it. The several lines of stages centring here,'
for speed, safety and comfort, are not excelled by any in the coun-
try.
  The Hydraulic Company, designed to supply the cily with pure
water from the Lake, was incorporated in 1836. and has already
b«en the source of great utility to the city, both in supplying water
fqr domestic purposes, and for the extinguishment of fires. The
stock is owned principally by merchants, and in time must become
the source of great profit.
  Ship building has been carried on here to some extent. A steam
propeller, registering 270 tons, was buill the past season, and a schoo-
  ner of about 200 tons burthen, to be'called the Maria^ is now in pro-
  cess of construction by the same builder, and will probably be
launched inthespring.
  It will be seen by reference to the statistical tables of this year,
that a large amount of beef has been packed here the present sea-
  son- We have four large packing houses and all of them have done
a heavy business thus far. The pork packing is only just com-
  mencing, but will, it is thought, be extensive.
  Much might be said in commendation of our Fire Companies-
all of which are highly efficient, and bespeak the public spirit of our
citizens. Our Military Companies will speak for themselves.
  Considering the age of the city, and the fact that our population
has been derived from almost every nation under heaven, and speak
so many different languages—the existing state of its society confers
distinction upon Chicago. Among the new cities of the west, we
shall be entitled, in this particular, at the present time, to an envia-
  ble position; the means now adopted to improve the condition of
society will, at no distant day, enable us to rank with any city iu
the land. Our citizens have always been distinguished for intelli-
  gence and morality—and for the uniform observance of all the pro-
  prieties of life. Our common schools, as the means of educating
the rising generation, have always been regarded with the deepest
interest, have been abundantly provided with the means for their
support, and are conducted with great ability. The most scrupu-
  lous care is exercised, on the part of the inspectors of public in-
