10 DESCRIPTION AND
existed on the part of the Indians, and the non-fulfilment of the
agreement, by Capt. Eleald, according to their expectations, may
have occasioned the line of conduct which they subsequently
adopted, which proved fatal to the lives of 55 of the party, and had
well nigh brought about the destruction of the whole. The
stores on hand were composed in part of a quantity of liquor, and
some arms and amunition. These it was deemed imprudent to give
the Indians—and they were destroyed, a part being thrown into the
River, and the residue deposited in a well within the Fort. One of
the arms thus disposed of, a brass piece, was found a few years since,
by some people employed in dredging the River—another, it is said,
remains there to this day. T!ie stores not destroyed were distribu-
  ted to the Indians. Under these circumstances, about nine o'clock,
on the morning of the 15th of August, the party, composed of 54
regulars, 12 militia, and several families, amounting in nil to about
70 persons, left the Fort, under the escort of Capt. Wells, and about
30 Miami Indians. Their route lay along the beach of the LaK-e,
between the water on the left, and a succession of sand hills on the
right. They had proceeded about a mile and a half from the Fort,
and had attained a point a short distance beyond the present resi-
  dence of Mr. II. B. Clarke, and were advancing, unconscious of dan-
  ger, when Capt. Wells, who it appears, had strayed for some pur-
  pose, some distance from, the main body, discovered the Indians in
ambush behind the sand hills. At the same time, another party
was seen interposing in the rear, between them and the Fort, which
they had just left. The 'alarm was immediately given—the dead
inarch struck up, and the troops marched directly up the bank, upon
the Indians. The action did not commence, as has generally been
represented, by firing, on the part of the Indians. After firing one
round, the troops charged, and succeeded in dispersing the Indians
in front. But the disparity of numbers was too great. The most
determined bravery was displayed by the troops, but it could avail
little against the superior force opposed to them, protected by the
sand hills behind which it had entrenched itself. In 15 minutes,
nearly the whole party were killed or wounded, and all the baggage
in the possession of the enemy. Capt. Heald drew off his men. into
the open prairie, and took possession of a slight elevation, out of
reach of the bank, and every other cover. The Indians, after some
consukaiion, made signs for Capt. Heald to approach them. He
was met by a Potawatamie Chief, called Blackbird, who requested
him to surrender, promising to spare the lives of the whole party,
in case of compliance. After some parley, the terms were agreed
to, and the arms delivered up. The survivors were marched back
to the Indian encampment, near the Fort, about the spot where
State Street now opens to'the River, and where the present Market
is lodated. Here, some of the prisoners, those who had been
wounded, were'murdered in the most shocking manner, by the
squaws, who appeared to take great delight in exercising their knives
and besmearing them in the blood of their unfortunate victims.
The small number surviving, were distributed, according to the cus-
  tom of the savages, among the different members of the tribe. Mr.
Kinzie, Sen., .however, whose family, from the first, had been pro-
  tected by some friendly chiefs, although he was himself engaged in
the action, with the troops—succeeded in procuring the release of
