  WRIOHTDEWOLF.
Wright, Walter, attorney at law, 112 Lake st. res Mrs. Wright's
Wurts, A. P. house Michigan avenue
Wurts, M. & M. A. dry goods and groceries, 99 Lake st [See card)
Wurts, M. of M. & M. A. W. res A. P. Wurts'
Wurts, M. A. of M. & M. A. Wurts, res A. P. Wurts
Yard, Archibald, tailor, at C. Taylor's, res S. H. Gilbert's
Yarnon, John, ship carpenter, house Dearborn st
Yates, Horace H. grocer, Clark st. h Clark b Madison and Monroe
Yeo,book keeper at Gurnee & Matteson's
York, Peter, laborer, house South of Jackson st
Young, A. W. medical student, at Dr. Brainard's
Young, Elisha, house South Water st
Young, Hugh, carpenter, Washington, b Wells and Franklin sts
Young, W. & E. store South Water st
Young, William, of W. & E. Y. South Water st
Zigler, Isaac, pedlar, res Washington Hall
  ADDENDA,
Containing the names of persons accidentally omitted above,-and
  names handed in too late for insertion in the body of the Direc-
  tory. The compiler cannot flatter himself that all omissions have
  been discovered in time to supply the deficiency by insertion in
  the addenda; but he trusts that the public will take such interest
  in the work as to report to him, as soon as detected, all names
  excluded from this edition; and also cases-where names are in-
  correctly given—cases of misdescription of business or residence,
  and all changes and removals which may hereafter take place.
Abel, Sidney, attorney at law, res Lake House
Bishop, George, house Dearborn st
Blaney, James V. Z. professor, in Rush Medical College, office
  Clark st. near South Water st (Seecard)
Breit, Adam, laborer, house Dutch Settlement
Brick, Henry, tailor, house Dutch Settlement
Castler, Matthias, laborer, house Dutch Settlement
Coburn, Isaac, carpenter, house Dearborn st. 1st ward
Comstock, Luke, laborer, house Wabash st
Cooley, Miss, dress and cloak maker, 175 Lake st
Dennis. Edward M. res Dr. Smith's
Dennis, John,
Dennis, Mrs. res Dr. Smith's
De Wolf, Erastus, res American Temperance House
