an incorporated City, the act of the legislature conferring its charter
being granted and approved March 4th of that year. The City is
divided into six Wards. The first and second Wards, divided by
Clark Street, are bounded by the South Branch-, Chicago River, and
the Lake—the first Ward lying East, and the second West of Clark
Street. The third and fourth Wards, divided by Randolph Street,
are situated on the West side of the North and South Branches—
the third South, and the fourth North of Randolph Street. The
fifth and sfxth Wards, divided by Clark Street, are bounded by the
North Branch, Chicago River, and the Lake—the fifth being West,
and the sixth East of Clark Street. The government of the City is
vested in a Common Council, composed of the Mayor and twelve
Aldermen, two for each ward, all chosen annually. The Common
Council, in addition to their other powers and duties, are constitu-
  ted, by virtue of their office, Commissioners of Common Schools,
with power to levy and collect taxes for their support', and to exer-
"cise a general supervision over matters pertaining to theni. In
1932, and the beginning of 1833, Chicago had about 100 inhabitants
and five or six log houses, exclusive of the Fort and its appurte-
  nances. In 1840, the population had increased to 4853. The pre-
  sent population exceeds 7580, and may be said at this time to amount
to 8000. The period of the greatest prosperity of Chicago, was
from 1833 to 1837. The revulsions and reverses of '3G-7, greatly
•retarded its growth. It continued, however, though more gradually,
to increase in business and resources until 1840-1, from which tim«
business received a new impulse, and it is now enjoying a degree of
prosperity equal to any former period of ks history.
. What the destiny of Chicago is to be, the future can alone deter-
inine. Judging by the past, it seems difficult to assign a limit to
its advancement. It presents, undoubtedly, one of the most remark-
Able instances of sudden rise to commercial importance, to be found
in our age. So rapid, indeed, has been its growth—with such
gigantic strides has it moved onward in its career, that little space
19 left to mark and calculate the successive stages of its progress.
"We behold it, from a distant arid isolated colony, inhabited only by
some five or six families clineing to a lone and solitary military
post for protection, and dependent for subsistence upon t-be uncer-
  tain arrival of some chance vessel from Mackinaw, in the short sprrce
of eight or ten years, become a mighty City, terming with a busy
and enterprising population, the centre of a widely extended and
flourishing commerce. To those who have been here frofm the be-
  ginning, and there are many among us, the change must be strik-
ittg-'-the contrast between what is, and what was—great indeed.
History, in this instance, has assumed the air of romance. Truly
has a change come over the spirit of our dream. It seems diffi-
  cult to reconcile to the mind, that the spot now covered with
stately bloclfs of buildings, and alive in every direction with a
busy and eager multitude, actively and profitably employed in the
numerous departments of our growing commerce, was, so recently,
a low and marshy plain, of which the wild beasts of the prairies were
almost the solitary tenants; that but yesterday, comparatively, the
wild Indian held here-his council-fire, nnd roamed abroad unmolest-
  ed in the enjoyment of his native freedom.
  A country so recent as this cannot be presumed to afford very
