  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 17
ment of the State, and has been the subject of legislation for more
than twenty years, presents a remarkable instance of the obstacles
which frequently oppose the accomplishment of the greatest under-
  takings. The first survey of the canal was made in 1823. In 1825
a bill was passed to incorporate the Illinois and Michigan Canal
Company; but no stock being taken under the charter, it was re-
  pealed at the next special session. In 1827, act of March 2, Con-
  gress appropriated each alternate section of land within five miles
of the prepared line. In 1829, a board of commissioners was orga-
  nized, with power to determine upon the route, and to discharge
other duties connected with the work. Chicago, Ottawa, and other
towns on the line were laid out by the board, and sales of lots
effected. The work was commenced in the year 1836, and was sus-
  pended in 1342. The law under which this work was contracted,
provides that the canal shall be CO feet wide at the surface, 40 feet
at the base, and six feet deep; that it shall commence at Chicago,
on canal land, and terminate at the mouth of the Little Veimilliou
River, making a distance of 95-i miles. It was to be constructed
Tipon the deep cut principle, and to be fed fro it) the waters of Lake
Michigan. By a recent survey, a method has been discovered by
which it is believed that a sufficient supply of water can be pro-
  cured from Fox River for a canal upon the shallow cut plan. The
.sum of about $5,000,000 has thus far been expended upon the
work. To complete it t;pon the plan contemplated by the late law,
about Si,GOO,000 more has been estimated to be necessary. If that
larr goes into effect, as present appearances se~em clearly to indicate,
the canal will be finished in about three years. We shall then have
the greatest continuity of inland water communication in the
world—extending from the Atlantic Ocean by the Erie Canal, along
the chain of Lakes, through our canal, the Illinois and Mississippi
Rivers, to th-?"Gulf of Mexico. This will be a glorious consumma-
  tion for Illinois, ;iii;l for every interest connected with her. The
vast resources connected with the canal itself, the resources which
»it will develope throughout the Slate, will enable her in a short
time to discharge all her debts—-to establish her credit—and to re-
  deem her imputation. Already "has the prospect of the completion
of this work eficcied a revolution in public sentiment, and has
caused emigration to set strongly in this direction. The reports
which have been circulated in regard to the circumstances anil pros-
  pects of the Siate have been discovered, upon examination, to be
founded in falsehood and misrepresentation. The public are now sa-
ti^fii'd ihiit the climate is as healthy and «alnbriou?;ts any portion of
the West—that the soil is infinitely superior—that our taxes, even un-
  der the pffi'ct of that severe ordeal through which we have passed,
uniformly have been less than any of the adjoining States and Ter-
  ritories—and that the prospects of the value of real estate, the high
price of produce, and the facilities of a convenient market, will rrn-
der it the most desirable State, in the Union. We may trust that
the day is not far distant when Illinois will assume her proper posi-
  tion among the Stales of the Union—when her friends will be en-
  abled to hurl back the imputations whirl: have been cast upon her
character—when she can no loncer, with a shadow of truth or justice,
be stigmatized as the land of speculators and repudiation! Until
then, she must calmly bide her time,
  2*
