  HISTORICAL SKETCH. II
Capt. Heald and lady, who were sent by him to St. Joseph, and
thence to Mackinaw, whence they made their escape. The remain-
  der of the prisoners were retained, but, it is said, were treated with
great kindness, and most of them surrendered to the British, at
Detroit, in the following spring. The day following the action,
the Indians burnt down the Fort, and dispersed. Such are the
leading particulars of this unfortunate action, collected, principally,
from an eye-witness of the whole. Capt. Heald has been subjected
to»much blame, a portion of which was undoubtedly merited. Hia
management of the Indians was injudicious throughout, and the
destruction of the stores, to say the least, imprudent. The evacua-
  tion, under existing circumstances, was remonstrated against, by Mr.
Kinzie and Capt. Wells, both of whom, from long intercourse with
the Indians, had become familiar with their character, and were
enabled to anticipate and foretell the result which ensued. Capt.
Wells had been bred an Indian warrior, and was a brave and skilful
soldier. He unfortunately fell early in the action, and was found
with his face blackened, after the manner of the Savages, when they
meet with disappointment.
The Fort was rebuilt in 1617, when it took the name of Fort
Dearborn. It was occupied, except at short intervals, by a Gar-
  rison, until 1837, when, the Indians having generally left the coun-
  try, it was finally evacuated, and has never since been re-occupied
as a military post. It remains in much the same condition as in
'37, except the pnllisadcs, which were removed, the past spring, and
their place supplied by a handsome fence. It has since been occu-
  pied by officers and agents in charge of the public works, and their
families. Fort Dearborn being almost the only memento of the
p;ist, in the midst of so many creations of the day—the necessity of
any alteration in its appearance is to be regretted.
  Until 1832, and even so late as 1833, little or nothing was done
towards making a commencement of the City—it probably not en-
  tering into the imagination of airy one, previous to that time, that a
town of any importance was to be here at all, at least, not for many
years. In 183?, its appearance and condition was much the same
as in 1823. when Major Long, who visited the place that year, de-
  scribes it " as presenting no cheering prospects, and containing but
few huts, inhabited by a miserable race of men, scarcely equal to
the Indians, from whom they were descended—and their log or bark
houses as low, filthy, and disgusting, displaying not the least trace
of comfort, and as a place of business, affording no inducements to
the settler—the whole amount of trade on the Lake, not exceeding
the cargos of five or six schooners, even at the time when the Gar-
  rison received its supplies from Mackinaw." This picture, though
perhaps too highly colored, presents, in the main, a correct view of
Chicago, in 1832. In 1830, there had been a sale of Canal lots, the
best bringing only fifty or one hundred dollars, many of which have
since become the most valuable in the City. Up to about that time,
the present most business, and densely populated part of the City,
was fenced, and used by the Garrison, for some purpose of hus-
  bandry, or pasturage. So late as '35 or '6, the fires usual on the
prairies in the fall, overran the third and fourth wards. There were
only some five or six houses, built mostly of logs, and a population
of less than one hundred.
