  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 9
population of about 3000. In 1809, it became a Territory by itself,
with a population of 12,282, and in IplS, was admitted into the
Union.
On the third day of August, 1795, at the treaty held by General
Wayne, with the Pottawatamies and other tribes at Greenville, the
title to six miles square of territory, at the mouth of Chikajo River,
as it is expressed in the treaty, was obtained' by the United States.
From the language of this treaty, it appears that a fort had formerly
stood on the land thus ceded, which renders it pretty certain, that
the French, who alone could have required anything of the sort,
had made a settlement here, many years before. In 1804, Fort
Chicago was built on the site of the present Fort. About the same
time, the American Fur Company, having been organised shortly
before, established a trading station, under the protection of the
Garrison. The little colony thus planted here, some forty years ago,
for military and trading purposes, may- be regarded as the first at-
  tempt to effect a permanent settlement of Chicago. The regular and
monotonous life led by this little community, for the first eight years,
afforded few incidents worthy of particular notice. In 1812, how-
  ever, the war broke out with England, the _conseq-uences of which
were peculiarly disastrous to all the Western settlements, exposed
as they were, especially those in Illinois, to the hostility of neigh-
  boring tribes of Indians. The causes which conspired to render the
Indians hostile at this time, are generally well understood, and may
be traced to the machinations of Tecumseh, and other English emis-
  saries, who^e influence extended through all the tribes, being felt as
far as the remote regions of Lake Superior. Chicago being then
an extreme frontier post in this direction, and the country in every
direction around it, full of Indians, with a force inadequate to its
defence, was considered so much endangered as to require its evacu-
  ation. This being resolved upon at Detroit, Capt. Heald, the officer
in command here at the time, received an order to abandon the Fort,
and proceed with the troops to Fort Wayne. This evacuation, on
account of the fatal consequences which foflowed it, and the fact,
that some of our present citizens were themselves here, and had
friends here at the time, has always been regarded with interest, and
may be considered a memorable event in the annals of Chicago.
The transaction may, therefore, not inappropriately be given some-
  what in detail, in this connection. Beside the Garrison, there were
several families residing here at the time. Mr. John Kinzie, father
of John H. Kin/.ie, Esq., present Register of the Land Office in this
City, occupied a house on the North side of the River, a little East
of the present site of the Lake House. The evacuation took place
on the 15th of August, six days after the reception of the order from
Gen. Hull, and the day before the disgraceful surrender of Detroit,
by thyat officer, and not after, as some writers have erroneously re-
  presented it. In the mean time, a larger body of Indians, mostly of
the Potuwatamie nation, had assembled in the vicinity of the Fort.
This has generally been represented as a voluntary movement on the
part of the Indians—but the most correct Opinion appears to be, that
Capt. Heald collected them himself, requiring of them an escort for
the troops, and promising to give them the factory stores, a conside-
  rable quantity of which, were on hand at the time. Whether this
be the fact, or not, some understanding of the kind undoubtedly
