24 BEECHER—BOGGS.
Beecher, Jerome, boot, shoe, and leather store, 1GO Lake st. house
  corner Michigan and Lake sts
Beeclier, Lewis, house Franklin st. b Lake and Randolph sts
Becker, Alexander C. merchant, house Clark st. 6th ward
Beer, Adam, shoemaker, at J. B. Mitchell's
Beer, Lawrence, shoemaker, corner Michigan and Wolcott sts
Beers, Cyrenus, of Botsibrd & B. house Wabash st
Beygeh, Peter, sausage maker, N. Water st. b Clark and Lasalle
Belden, Wm. E. carpenter, house Water st. b Canal and Clinton
Belkley, , res Sauganash Hotel
Bell, James, gardner,
Bell, John, at Stow's foundry, res Western Hotel
Bending, James, carpenter, house Wolcott st. b Kinzie & Michigan
Benedik, S. merchant tailor, 187 Lake street (See card)
Bennett, Abel, saddler and harness maker, at Paine's
Bennett, S. C. teacher, school and residence corner of State and
  Madison streets
Bentley, John, laborer, at G. S. Hubbard's
Berdell, Charles, cabinet maker, at D. A. & E. M. Jones's
Berg, Adam, grocery and tavern, Lasalle st. b Lake and Rand sts
Berg, Anton, at Charles E. Peck's
Berg, John, drayman,* Monroe street, bet Clinton and Jefferson
Berg, Joseph, saddler and harness maker, at Charles E. Peck's
Berry, Joseph, laborer, at G. S. Hubbard's
Best, Henry, teamster, Canal street, bet Lake and North Water
Bewsey, George, mason, res John L. Gray's
Bickerdike, carpenter, Canal street, bet Adams and Jackson
Bigelow, A. clerk at H. O. Stone's, house State street, bet Wash-
  ington and Madison
Bigelow, Henry W. clerk to S. J. Surdarn, house Clark street, b
  Washington and Madison
Biggs, John, sailor, house Market st, b Washington and Madison
Bills, George R. clerk, at H. Norton &: Go. res Trrmont House
Birdf J. H. at Dr. Biuinard's, residence City Hotel
Bishop, Dardanus, fanner, house corner of State and Jefferson sts
Bishop, James E. dry goods, groceries, and hardv/are, 131 Lake st,
  residence Theophilus G. Greenwood (See card)
Blacktnan, Edwin, clerk at H. H. Magic & Co.'s, residence Man-
  sion House
Blaikie, A. of Ryerson & B. res American Temperance House
Blair, Mrs. residence State street
Blair, Wm. stove and tin factory, cor Dearborn and South Water
  sts. residence Tremont House
Blakesley, H. A. of Loyd, B. & Co. residence Mrs. Boyer's
Blakey, John, carpenter, residence alley b Clark and Lasalle streets
Blanchard, Francis G. residence Wells st, b Lake and Randolph
Blanchard, Joseph, at C. Follansbe's
Blandey, Christopher, clerk to John H. Foster, residence same
Blasy, Barnhard, baker, corner of Lake and Wells sts, res same
Bliss, Charles, house 2d ward
Bliss, S. C. at Charles E. Peck's
Bolles, Nathan H, house Lake street, east.of Dearborn
Boggs, Charles T. carpenter, house State street .
