  BOONE—BRIGGS. 25
Boone, Levi D. physician, office Clark street, opposite City Hotel,
  house State st. corner of Washington st (See card)
Booih, Daniel, carpenter, corner of Jefferson and Washington sts
Bond, Harvey, laborer, house Clark st
Bond, Heinan S. clerk to Loyd, Blakesley, & Co. house east of
  Clark street
Bond, Hiram, laborer, house east of Clark street
Bond, James, painter, residence City Refectory
Bostwick, George M. bar keeper, at the Illinois Exchange
Bolsford, 1. tailor, Wells st. b Randolph and Washington streets
Botsford, J. K. of B. & Beers, 109 Lake st. house Wabash street
Botsford & Beers, stove and hardware, 109 Lake street (See card)
Bowas, John, drayman, house S. Water st. b State and Wabash sts
Bowen, Erastus, of B. & Cole, house Michigan avenue
Bowen 6c Cole, dry goods and groceries, 66 Lake street
Bowen, Henry, carriage maker, house State street
Bowes, John P. at J. Gage's, house Clinton st. b Adams and Jackson
Bowman, Ariel, house corner Dearborn and Madison streets
Bowman, Henry, res at Ariel Bowman's
Bowinaster, Wm. cabinet maker, at J. B. Weir's
Boyce, A. D. clerk at L. M. Boyce's, residence at D. B. Heartt's
Boyce, L. M. wholesale and retail druggist and apothecary, 119
  Lake street, Saloon Building, res E. M. Willard's (See card)
Boyer, V. A. justice of the peace, Clark st. opp P. O. res South
  Water st. 2d ward (See card)
Boyington, Chns. H. captain of schooner Charlotte, Indiana st. b
  Pine and Sand sts
Boyland, William, carpenter, First st. b Clark and Wells sts
Bracken, John, of Bracken & Tuller, res Wabash avenue
Bracken it Tuller, dry goods and groceries, 161 Lake st (See card)
•Brackett, William W. editor and proprietor "Chicago Express,"
  92 Lake st. res American Temperance House
Bradley, Asa F. county surveyor, cor Dearborn and Washington sts-
Bradley, Bristol, dentist, cor Lake & Clark sts. res Mrs. Merriam's
Bradley, Cyrus P. clerk, at Horace Norton &. Co.'s, house Madison
  st. b vv^ells and Franklin sts
-. Bradley, David M. printer, res Jackson st. b State and Clark sts
Bradley, Joseph, clerk, at W. H. Adams & Co.'s
Brady, Michael, blacksmith, North Water st. near Clark st. res cor
  Lasnlle and Wells sts.
Brady, Geo. constable, res nenr Clark ;ind N. Water sts. 5th ward
Brninard, Daniel, physician, Clark st. opp P. O. res City Hotel
Braise, Mrs. dress maker and tailoress, North Water st. b Wolcoti
  and Kinzie sto-
Brand, Alexander, of Murray <fc Brand, res cor Illinois aud Cass sts
Brayton, H. II. physician, Clark st. one door south of Methodist
  Church (Sf.e card)
Breen, John, packer at A. G. Burley & Co.'s
Bieese, Robert B. clerk at Jarncs Hervey's, residence Clark street,
  b North Water and Kinzie
Bridges, P. B. carpenter, Lake street, 4th ward
Briggs, Benjamin, wagon maker, Adams st. W. of Lasatte et
Briggs, Jeremiah, mason, residence S. of Adams st. W. of Clark st
  3
