  HISTORICAL SKETCH. 7
abundant materials for history. The incidents, however, connected
with the rise and progress of the City—the causes which first gave
it an impulse—and the works of public and domestic improvement,
upon which its future prosperity depend, together with such events
ns transpired upon the spot, at an early day, may, perhaps, furnish
a narrative not altogether uninteresting, and nottinconsistent with our
present purpose. For a western settieanent, Chicago can claim no
inconsiderable degree of antiquity. In regard to its earlier history,
however, very little can be affirmed with any degree of certainty.
The original proprietors and first inhabitants of the region, were, of
course, the aborigines. The description of the first appearance of
the vicinity, by some of its earliest explorers, leads to the belief, that
they were here from a very early period; that this was, then, and
from time immemorial had been, the site of an Indian village.
Major Long, among others, mentions the number and apparent an-
  tiquity of the trails centring here, ns evidence of the truth of this
position. It is to be regretted that so little can be ascertained with
certainty, of the lives and fortunes of the various tribes which, at
different times, flourished on the spot. The melancholy truth, that
they have passed away from their ancient dwelling-places, consti-
  tutes about all we know of them. Those wild races of primitive
men have been swept away by the onward march of civilization.
Their rude wigwams and bark canoes have given place to the
princely dwellings and the stately ships of another and a different
class of beings. Chieftiiin and warrior are gone. It is only occa-
  sionally that a'.miserable remnant find their way back from their
new homes in the more distant west, to witness the transformation
which \3 going on in this land of iheir forefathers. Their visits are
becoming less and less frequent. Each year witnesses so many
changes, that soon they will cease to recognise, in the scene, any
semblance to its former self. All will soon be changed—save only
the beating of the waves on the shore of the lake over which man
can exercise no control. The Illinois, the Shawnees, and the Pota-
w;it;unies will be no more. They may survive for a time beyond
the father of waters, or on the shores of the Pacific—but fate seems
to have decreed, that ultimately the whole race are to become ex-
tinct.
  The French wore the original discoverers and settlers of the West.
As parly ns the latter part of the. sixteenth century, while (he Eng-
  lish Colonies were yet clinging to the shores of tlie Atlantic, almost
two hundred years ago, the,ir voyages and expeditions to this region
commenced. In a few years they discovered, and to some extent,
settled the uliole vnst region from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico,
a distance of more thnn 3000 miles. Their undertaking at that early
day, was one of no little difficulty and dnngci. If was, nevertheless,
commenced with a spirit, and carried on with a degree of persever-
  ance and sagacity, unexampled in the history < f adventure. The
limits of thn present sketch will not permit us to give the delails of
these expeditions. It wouKl be unpardonable, however, to pass
over in silence the exploits of those brave and self-devoted men,
through whose exertions the resources and capabilities of the West
were first made known. It is to be feared that they have failed to
receive, at the hands cf posterity, the reward to which their achieve-
  ments entitle them; that, while we have been lavish of praise upon
