CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — 1833
Best-effort verified reading transcription of the three supplied scan pages
Editorial method
This is a reading transcription of the three images contained in the supplied PDF. The PDF itself contains no extractable text, so the transcription was made from the page images using repeated enlarged visual inspection and multiple independent OCR passes. Original nineteenth-century spelling, capitalization, names, and punctuation are retained where they can be read with confidence. Broken line-end hyphenation has generally been rejoined when it is plainly typographical.
The scans are uneven: portions are sharply legible, while some areas are faded, curved into the binding, torn, stained, or photographed at too low a resolution to support a certain reading. In those places, the following conventions are used rather than silently inventing wording:
[illegible] = text cannot be recovered confidently from the supplied scan.
[unclear: ...] = a probable reading, but not certain.
[damaged] = wording is physically lost or obscured in the source image.
[continues] = an article continues into another printed column or beyond the supplied scan.
Where a difficult passage was also found in a contemporary or later public-domain reprinting, that parallel text was used only to resolve wording when it visibly agreed with the supplied newspaper image. The supplied scan remains the controlling source.
SUPPLIED SCAN PAGE 1
Visible date at the top of this supplied page: NOV. 19, 1833.
Left-side news columns
[The extreme left printed column is severely faded and curved into the binding. Much of its opening political/news text is not recoverable from this scan. The following is all that can be read with useful confidence.]
[Steamboat casualty report — heading damaged]
[The article ends with a list of persons killed, scalded, or injured. Several names are only partly legible.]
Peter Hendrickson, Illinois, slightly [injured].
[unclear name], St. Joseph county, Indiana, slightly [injured].
William Harrington, Lawrenceburg, [injured].
Thomas [unclear surname], Louisville, [injured].
J. T. Jones, [place unclear].
J. Gibson, [unclear].
Mrs. [Wolfford/Wolford?], [unclear].
[Several children are listed; the scan is too faint for safe transcription of their names.]
James Emerson, 2d Steward, dead.
[unclear name], near Frankfort, Ky., dead.
[An engineer — name damaged], killed by [the accident].
J. BELL, Clerk S. B. [name of boat illegible].
ILLINOIS LAND TAXES.
At the last session of the Illinois Legislature, several material alterations were made in the revenue laws, which it is important for non-resident owners of lands in that state to become acquainted with.
The tax is two cents per acre on lands of the first quality, and one and a half cents per acre on lands of the second quality. [A portion describing the dates and officers to whom the tax is payable is faded.] If the tax is not paid, the county clerks advertise the lands of non-residents as delinquent, previous to the annual sale. The charge for advertising is eighteen cents per tract.
[The land is sold for the tax and charges, subject to redemption.] The owner may redeem within two years after the day of sale.
It is apprehended that these new regulations will occasion extra expense and loss to many non-resident land-holders who neglect the payment of the tax. [The article advises owners to arrange payment of the tax for 1833.]
The office of State Recorder has been abolished. Deeds are now recorded in the counties in which the lands lie.
The above information being very important to those interested in the North Western country, [the paper recommends a person whose name is not sufficiently clear in the scan] who proposes to act as an agent for persons having lands in Illinois. Every confidence may be placed in his fidelity and promptness.
LATEST FROM TAMPICO.
The [schooner name illegible] arrived at New Orleans from Tampico, which place she left on the 23d of September. At the time of her departure entire tranquillity prevailed in the city, but the interior of the country was still in a state of agitation. [Several sentences concerning political disturbances and reported defeats are too faint to recover safely.]
[The article reports heavy mortality, apparently from cholera, and says that in a short period many thousands had died.]
FROM MEXICO.
[An item reports that a conspiracy had been formed to overthrow the existing government, but had been detected; the names and several particulars are too indistinct to transcribe reliably.]
LATEST FROM MEXICO.
Vera Cruz, [date partly illegible]. — [The article discusses the Vice President, political prisoners, and military officers; much of the first half is damaged.] A correspondent of the Journal of Commerce, writing from Vera Cruz under date of September [unclear], says: “We have been severely [visited by cholera]. Within about [unclear period] we have lost full one quarter of our estimated population.”
AN INFERNAL CONTRIVANCE.
A most wicked and unaccountable attempt has been made to take the life of Governor Wilcox. The following particulars of the affair are given in reply to some enquiries by a correspondent of the Providence Gazette.
WESTERLY, Oct. [date unclear].
[The writer states that a trunk or box was brought by the New-York sloop and sent to Governor Wilcox. A label or letter represented it as coming from a relative or acquaintance. Its appearance excited suspicion.]
The Governor unlocked the trunk, and in attempting to raise the lid observed cords within. The trunk was carried to a safer place and opened with great caution. The cords were attached to the triggers of two loaded horse-pistols, so arranged that raising the cover would discharge them into a quantity of powder. On an earlier attempt two strands of the cord fortunately broke; had the remaining fastening held, the explosion would probably have destroyed the house and all in it.
The quantity of powder was found to be about twenty-three pounds. The pistols were heavily loaded. [A few lines are damaged.]
These are all the facts that have come to my knowledge; I need not tell you [what an atrocious attempt it was]. I have written in haste. Very respectfully, I remain your obedient servant,
R. C. [BURLINGAME?]
Emigration to Illinois.
The Green River Advocate, published at Hopkinsville, Kentucky, says: The number of persons that daily pass thro’ this place, on their way to the State of Illinois, is immense. Many of these people seem to be much more wealthy and respectable than those we generally see moving to that State. A formidable company passed, in which there were five large, well built and heavily laden waggons, and six neat two horse carriages, filled with females. The fertile lands of Illinois invite men of enterprise and capital; and we may expect that this young State will take a conspicuous rank among her sisters of the Union.
Georgia election.
The election in Georgia for Governor has terminated in favor of Mr. Lumpkin by a majority of about 2,000 votes. He was the administration candidate. His opponent, [Mr. Crawford], was the candidate of the [opposition/nullifiers]. The election was closely contested, and the result shows that the nullifiers have little to hope for in Georgia. Mr. Lumpkin was opposed partly on the ground of his devotion to Mr. Van Buren, to the “Albany Regency,” and for advocating the “bloody bill,” [remainder unclear].
Navigation of the St. Lawrence.
It may indeed be said of American enterprise, that it never slumbers. On the Northern Frontier, a project begins to be agitated at Ogdensburg, to which, as a matter of course, the attention of the people of that section will be directed. It is no other than that of making the St. Lawrence river navigable between Lake St. Francis and Ogdensburg, at a comparatively trifling expense, and thus keeping its whole trade within the State of New-York, where a transit duty might be levied that would itself defray a great part of the expenses of the improvement.
It appears that the Grass River is navigable for steam-boats within three miles of Massena Village. It is separated from the St. Lawrence by a deep ravine and very low land, where, at trifling expense, a navigable channel might be made. This channel would communicate with the St. Lawrence [near the Long Sault], avoiding the rapids.
The Canadians have [a corresponding project], but this project of ours would effectually divert the trade through our own territory. The canal would be but about five miles long, and require but [two locks]. The nature of the ground shows that the excavation will be practicable. Surveys are proposed immediately, in order that the action of the people may be had upon the subject as early as possible. — Albany Paper.
[Distressing occurrence.]
A lady of this city having lost her husband a few days since, in a fit of despair attempted to destroy herself and two of her children, by precipitating them into a well, and then throwing herself in after them; they were all taken out soon after, but melancholy to relate, her children were both dead, and her own life is at present despaired of. — N. O. Bee.
Election Notice.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Electors of the Chicago Magistrates’ District, that an Election will be held at the house of Chester Ingersoll, in said district, on the 9th day of December next, for the choice of one Constable for said District. Chicago, Nov. 29, 1833.
W. E. HEACOCK,
One of the Judges of Election.
MARRIED.
In this village, on Monday evening, the 25th instant, by the Hon. R. J. Hamilton, [Gideon K——?], Esq., of the Indian Department, to Miss [Frances?] Hollenbeck, daughter of Miles Hollenbeck, Esq., of Kaskaskia.
In this village, on the 17th inst., by the Rev. Mr. Walker, Mr. GILBERT CARPENTER, to Mrs. [given name unclear] HODGE.
In this village, on Sunday, the 13th ult., by [R. J. Hamilton?], Esq., Mr. JOHN BATES, Jr. of New-York, to Miss HARRIET E. BROWN, of Springfield, Mass.
DIED.
At Jefferson Barracks, on the 4th inst., after a protracted illness, Capt. B. HOLMES, of the United States Dragoons.
At St. Louis, Major THOMAS FORSYTH, late Indian Agent of the U. States.
At Buffalo, on the 29th ult., JEDUTHAN L. STEELE, editor of the Buffalo Bulletin.

Advertisements and local notices
For Sale.
12 KEGS BLASTING POWDER.
Enquire of J. BATES, Jr. at P. Office.
Nov. 26.
For Sale.
A LOW PRICE OX WAGGON. Enquire of C. H. CHAPMAN.
Nov. 26, 1833.
Cut Nails.
FROM 3d to 20d, of superior quality, for sale by the keg or less quantity, by
JOHN WRIGHT.
Nov. 26.
Two Buildings to Let.
TILL the first day of June 1834. Possession given immediately.
Enquire of JOHN WRIGHT.
Nov. 26.
PHILIP CARPENTER,
CHICAGO — ILL.
WILL keep constantly on hand, a general assortment of
DRUGS, MEDICINES,
Oils, Paints, Dye-Stuffs, &c. &c.
— ALSO —
Dry Groceries, Glass, Nails, &c.
Nov. 22, 1833.
Just Opened and for Sale,
AT the New Store on the corner of South Water and Clark-streets, Chicago, Ill. A new and splendid assortment of Fancy and Staple
DRY GOODS,
Crockery & Glass Ware,
HARDWARE and CUTLERY,
Men’s and Boys’ Fur and Cloth CAPS,
Cotton Batting, Yarn and Wicking,
Sheeting and Shirting, Blankets, &c. &c.;
all of which will be sold at the lowest prices for Cash or Country Produce.
W. KIMBALL.
Chicago, Nov. 1833.
NEWHERRY & DOLE,
Forwarding & Commission MERCHANTS,
HAVE just received an assortment of DRY GOODS, HARD-WARE, CROCKERY, &c. &c., which they will sell low for Cash and Produce.
Cash paid for Fur Peltries.
Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
Storage, Forwarding and COMMISSION BUSINESS.
R. JONES respectfully informs the public, that [upon] the opening of the navigation in the spring, he will be ready to receive and forward property that may be consigned to him. Having made arrangements with one of the most important lines on the Erie Canal, he will be able to forward property to New-York on the most advantageous terms.
He will also receive and sell any property that may be entrusted to him, on Commission, on the most advantageous terms.
Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
PETER COHEN,
EAST END OF SOUTH WATER-STREET,
Chicago — Illinois,
RESPECTFULLY informs the public, that he has on hand a large and splendid assortment of
WINTER CLOTHING.
ALSO, a fresh supply of Provisions, Groceries and Liquors, which he offers for sale at the lowest prices for Cash or Country Produce.
[He returns acknowledgements for past patronage and hopes for its continuance.]
Nov. 26, 1833.
FINE GROCERIES.
WINE, BRANDY, GIN, RUM, &c. &c.
[quantities unclear] barrels Ohio Superfine Flour;
[quantities unclear] do. Ohio [Wheat?] Flour;
[other quantities unclear] Pork / Fish / Mackerel;
[quantity unclear] Bushels Dried Apples;
Table Salt, Tin Ware, &c. &c.
For sale by [merchant name unclear].
Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
NOTICE.
WILL be sold at Public Auction, on Monday next, the 2d of December, at Fort Dearborn, the following articles of property of the United States, to wit:
Two yoke of OXEN,
One OX WAGGON,
Some few articles of Soldiers’ Clothing.
The Sale to commence at 11 o’clock, A. M.
[Date in notice unclear.]
Saddle & Harness Making.
GOSS & COBB
WOULD respectfully inform the inhabitants of Chicago and the neighboring settlements, that they have commenced a shop in this village, on the corner of Lake and [Clark?] streets, where they keep on hand and will manufacture to order, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
SADDLES,
Bridles, Martingales, &c.;
Hard leather and common mounted and [unmounted] TRUNKS.
Coaches, Chaises and Waggons trimmed in style. Repairing immediately attended to when brought to their shop.
By strict attention to business, they hope for a share of patronage.
Blacksmithing Business.
MATTHIAS MASON & CO.
CARRY on the above business in all its various branches, on Main-street, nearly opposite Graves’ Tavern, where they intend to keep ready made, all kinds of Shoes, Chains, &c. &c. Work done on the shortest notice, and most liberal terms.
Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
For Sale,
ONE large English BELL, suitable for a Church. [Also bells?] suitable for an Academy.
Enquire of J. BATES, Jr. at P. Office.
Nov. 26.

Right-side merchants and local advertisements
C. & I. HARMON
HAVE recently received a large and general assortment of
Dry Goods, Crockery, Hardware, new Wet and Dry Groceries,
all of which they are desirous of selling at a small advance from cost.
They also have on Commission, a large lot of Leather, Saddlery, &c.
Grocery & Provision Store.
B. JONES,
CHICAGO — ILLINOIS,
KEEPS constantly on hand, all kinds of GROCERIES, such as Tea, Coffee, Sugar, &c., and most kinds of PROVISIONS, which he offers for sale at the lowest prices.
Provisions Bought and Sold.
Nov. 26, 1833.
JOHN WRIGHT,
OFFERS FOR SALE CHEAP FOR CASH, a different qualities and patterns of
Merino Cloths;
[do.] Circassians;
Thibet, Valentia and Prussian Shawls;
India, Canton and Crape Handkerchiefs;
[plain] and black Italian do.;
Figured and plain Ribbons;
Book Muslins;
Mull, Jaconet and [Cambric] Muslins;
Quillings and Edgings;
Blue, black and mixed Cloths;
Black, natural and light blue Sattinetts;
White, scarlet, and red Flannels;
[cloths for] Pantaloons;
Checks and Plaids;
Silk and Swansdown Vestings;
Canton Flannel;
Shirtings and Sheetings;
[hosiery / other dry goods — several lines indistinct].
HARDWARE, CROCKERY,
Groceries, Boots and Shoes,
Stationary, Tin Ware, &c. &c.,
all of which it is unnecessary to enumerate, and which he offers to the public on the most accommodating terms.

Village Ordinances.
Be it Ordained by the Trustees of the Town of Chicago, That the following shall be the boundaries of said town, to wit: Beginning at [the intersection of Jackson and Jefferson streets], [thence by the boundary of Kinzie’s Addition and toward the United States Pier; several survey calls are partially obscured]; thence to the channel of the Chicago River; thence along the channel of said river [and] the eastern boundary of Chicago, as laid out by the [Canal Commissioners], thence southwardly with [that boundary] to Jackson street, to the place of beginning.
[An ordinance then names several streets within the town. The first street [north of Washington?] and several following names are not all legible in this scan.]
3. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the first day of December next, every owner of any hog, sow or pig, found running at large in said town, without having a ring in its nose or yoke on its neck, shall be liable to a fine of two dollars for each and every offence, which may be recovered by any Justice of the Peace in said town.
4. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the tenth day of December next, any person who shall shoot off any fire arms of any description, within the limits of said town, shall be liable to a fine of two dollars for each and every offence, to be collected in the manner above specified.
5. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the tenth day of December next, every person who shall remove from either of the bridges in said town, any plank or any piece of timber belonging thereto, shall be liable to a fine of five dollars for each and every offence, to be collected in the manner above specified.
6. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the tenth day of December next, it shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of said town, to pass any stove pipe attached to any stove, within any building, through the roof, wooden partition, lath and plaster partition, or side of any wooden building, unless the same be guarded by brick or stone, or be passed through tin or sheet iron, the outside of which shall be at least six inches distant from the pipe, and the pipe to be at least six inches from any wood through which it may pass. Every stove pipe shall be carried at least [eighteen inches?] above the roof, and beyond the side of any building through which it passes. Any person failing to comply with the above ordinance, shall be liable to a penalty of five dollars, to be collected as above specified.
And furthermore, any person complained of for the above offence, shall within forty-eight hours from the first complaint render the roof, partition or side of their building safe, in the manner above specified, or by entire removal of such pipe; such person shall on a second complaint be liable to a penalty of five dollars, to be collected as above.
7. Be it further Ordained, That any person or persons who shall, who shall after the tenth day of December next, run any horse, mare, gelding, mule or ass, through any of the streets of said town in the streets of said town, shall be liable to a fine of two dollars for each and every offence, to be collected as above specified.
8. Be it further Ordained, That any person or persons who shall be guilty of the indecent exhibition of any stallion within the limits of said town, from and after the tenth day of December next, shall be liable to a fine of three dollars for each offence, to be collected as above specified.
9. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the tenth day of December next, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to encumber the streets within the limits of said town with any timber, stone, brick, boxes, or barrels, or to put any other impediment or impediments in said streets, under a penalty of one dollar for each and every offence, to be collected as above specified.
10. Be it further Ordained, That from and after the tenth day of December next, it shall be unlawful for any person to throw or put, or cause to be thrown or put, into the Chicago River, within the limits [of the town], any carcass of any dead animal, under a penalty of three dollars for each and every offence, to be collected as above.
TH. J. V. OWEN, Pres’t.
(Attest) [Secretary’s name damaged].

Chicago Soap and Candle Manufactory.
Messrs. DANIEL ELSTON & [partner name lost under a hole/tear in the scan]
BEG to inform the public, that they have commenced the Manufacture of Soap and Candles; and hope by punctuality and attention to their business, as well as keeping constantly on hand an assortment of all descriptions of Hard and Soft SOAP, Wax and other Candles, to ensure the public support.
N. B. Cash paid for Tallow, in any quantity; also for good House Ashes.
Strayed,
FROM Chicago, about the 8th of October last, a pair of OXEN: a Brindle, with a broad set of horns; and a Light Red; both fair looking and in good order when left. If taken up by any person, charges will be paid. Information respecting them received at the Post Office, or if by letter, directed to the Post Master, Chicago. They are supposed to have gone South, where they were raised.
Nov. 26, 1833.
$25 REWARD.
STRAYED from the subscriber, at Chicago, on Saturday, 6th July, 1833, Two Horses, of the following description, viz:
One Blood Bay, 7 or 8 years old, 16 hands high, delicate made, black mane and tail, a few white hairs about the loin and flank, legs all black, a natural trotter, shod all round when he left.
One Roan or light Sorrel, aged 7 or 8 years, about 16 hands high, stout well made, white face, two white feet, trotter, heavily shod forward, a small brand of C. on the left cheek and shoulder. Both horses have switch tails, and marks of the saddle. It is presumed they would not separate, as they were wonted together. The sorrel was purchased in June, near Springfield, Sangamon county. The bay was lately owned by Mr. [Taylor?], near Danville.
Any person who will find said horses, and return them to the subscriber at Chicago, shall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges for feeding, &c.
P. MAXWELL.
Chicago, Ill., Nov. 26, 1833.
Taken Up.
By Harry [Brown/Bard?], living in the Du Page [settlement], Cook county, Illinois, on the 8th inst., a small [horse], supposed to be four years old, [about fourteen] hands high, one hind foot white, silver mane hanging upon the right side, [other marks unclear], partly shod. Appraised by Richard M. Sweet and Theron Parsons to twenty-seven dollars, before Stephen M. Salisbury.
RICH’D. J. HAMILTON,
Clerk Com. Ct. Cook co. Ill.
Taken Up.
By William [surname unclear], at Walker’s Grove in Cook county, a brown Horse, supposed [age unclear], [about] fifteen hands high, [marks unclear], appraised by [Jesse] Walker and [name unclear] to [amount unclear]. Also a bay Horse, six years old, fifteen hands high, black mane and tail and white hairs on his forehead. Appraised by James Walker and [name unclear] to fifty-five dollars.
RICH’D. J. HAMILTON,
Clerk Com. Ct. Cook co. Ill.

DEMOCRAT.
Is published every Tuesday, in the village of Chicago, Cook Co. Ill., in the building on the S. W. corner of South Water and Clark-streets.
TERMS.
I. The Chicago Democrat is printed on an imperial sheet, and afforded to subscribers at TWO DOLLARS AND FIFTY CENTS, payable in ADVANCE; [the wording of the non-advance rate is damaged]. Any person procuring six subscribers and forwarding the amount of their subscriptions [in advance], will be entitled to a copy gratis.
II. ADVERTISEMENTS. — For 17 lines or under, $1 for the first, and 25 cents for every subsequent insertion. A liberal discount will be made to those who advertise by the year.
JOB PRINTING.
Attached to this office is an assortment of JOB TYPE, which are inferior to none in this State. Books, Pamphlets, Blanks, Handbills, Cards, &c. executed with neatness and despatch.
The following gentlemen will confer a favor on us, by acting as Agents for the Democrat, in procuring subscribers and forwarding the respective amounts to us:
George Cloud, P. M., America.
Elijah Willard, P. M., Jonesboro’.
William Limerick, Esq., Brownville.
William C. Murphy, Esq., Pinckneyville.
Miles Hollenbeck, Esq., Kaskaskia.
Daniel Converse, P. M., Waterloo.
John Crain, Esq., Covington.
Harry Wilson [surname appears Wilson/Wilton], Esq., Carlyle.
Simon M. Hubbard, P. M., Frankfort.
S. J. Chapman, P. M., Vienna.
Charles Dunn, P. M., Golconda.
James Caldwell, Esq., Equality.
Thomas F. Vaught, Esq., Shawneetown.
Adam W. Snyder, Esq., Belleville.
David Prickett, Esq., Madison.
Col. Fry, Carrollton.
Col. James Evans, Jacksonville.
Knapp and Pogue, Esqrs., Bardstown.
Col. E. D. Taylor, Springfield.
Col. —— Crain, Pekin.
Thomas Hartsell, Esq., Hennepin.
Joseph Cloud, Esq., Ottawa.
Job Ratcliff, Esq., Carmi.
Henry J. Mills, Esq., Edwards co.
Hon. Wm. B. Archer, Darwin.
Jas. M. M’Lean, Esq., Lawrenceville.
Wickliff Kitchell, Esq., Palestine.
Col. Shelleday [reading uncertain], Esq., Paris.
Rigden B. Slocumb, Esq., Wayne county.
John Davenport, Esq., Hamilton co.
Hon. Wm. Marshall, Clay co.
William M’Connell, P. M., Vandalia.
Joseph Oliver, Esq., Shelbyville.
Samuel M’Roberts, Esq., Danville.
Hiram C. Bennett, Esq., Hillsboro’.
Hosea T. Camp, Esq., Greenville.
Maj. William Campbell, [place damaged].
Wesley Williams, Esq., Hancock co.
Capt. Samuel Alexander, Quincy.
Capt. Hart Fellows, Rushville.
Col. Leonard Ross, Atlas.
John Shaw, Esq., Gilead.
Henry B. Stillman, Esq., Peoria.
Francis Font, Esq., Lewiston.
O. S. M. Ross, Esq., Havana.
Missouri:
Joel Edmond H. M’Cabe, St. Louis.
John R. Carter, Esq., Chariton.
Indiana:
Charles [surname unclear], La Porte.
Michigan Territory:
[Name unclear], Esq., Niles.
[Name unclear] Welch, Esq., White Pigeon.
[Name unclear] Wilkins, Tecumseh.
[Name unclear], Esq., Ypsilanti.
New York:
[Name unclear], Esq., Buffalo.
[Name unclear], Esq., Watertown.
[The right edge is abraded, so several initials and names in the final portion of the agents list cannot be read with confidence.]
SUPPLIED SCAN PAGE 2
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.” — Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. TUESDAY NOV. 26, 1833.
VOL. I. — NO. 1.

IN THE FAR WEST.
KE-O-KUCK, AND MEETING WITH THE SIOUX.
[The first several paragraphs begin in the faded far-left column. The following reading preserves all recoverable substance; a few words at the extreme left edge remain lost.]
[Ke-o-kuck and a party of Sacs and Foxes had gone westward on their customary buffalo hunt. Scouts returned with news of a herd, but also reported signs of the Sioux and large smokes which they believed to proceed from a Sioux encampment. A council was called.]
Ke-o-kuck addressed his warriors. He recalled the losses which the Sacs and Foxes had suffered from the Sioux, and for a moment spoke of surrounding their enemies and attacking them. Then, remembering the promise he had made to the Great Father and to Gen. Scott, he declared that he had been commanded not to go to war with the Sioux, and that he would keep his word.
“I will go to the Sioux camp to-morrow — I will make peace, or fall in the attempt!”
[Wapello and others feared that he would be killed, but Ke-o-kuck selected a companion and two young braves and set out.]
After travelling about eighteen miles, they ascended a slight elevation and discovered the Sioux encampment, situated upon a gentle rise with a valley between. Ke-o-kuck left the two young men concealed upon the hill, and with his companion advanced toward the camp.
[Peace emblems or flags were exchanged or displayed.] Ke-o-kuck, waving his [flag], rode toward the armed Sioux, who had crossed the creek and were advancing to shake hands with him.
One of the Sioux seized his whip, which had been fastened to his wrist by a string, and attempted to drag him from his horse. Fortunately the string broke. Another seized his horse by the bridle. Finding himself in this critical situation, Ke-o-kuck rose in his stirrups, smote his breast, and told them his name was Ke-o-kuck.
His companion was likewise surrounded. Ke-o-kuck perceived a gun presented at him, and another gun raised at him in the rear. He began to think that he would fall a sacrifice, resistance appearing useless. At this moment the two young braves, who had been stationed on the hill, charged at full gallop upon the Sioux. The Sioux gave way before them, retiring backwards with their guns cocked.
Ke-o-kuck and his companions wheeled off in the best manner they could, keeping their faces towards the enemy. Ke-o-kuck called to them:
“We wish to make peace!”
“Meet us at this place to-morrow for council,” the Sioux replied.
“We will,” answered Ke-o-kuck.
They soon reached the high ground, wheeled their horses, and took a view of the Sioux as they retired. They discovered that the whole party of Sioux warriors had advanced against them, and were then slowly returning to their camp.
As they were returning home, Ke-o-kuck requested his faithful companion to tell the chiefs and warriors what had occurred. Just as the sun was setting they reached their encampment. [One of Ke-o-kuck’s people had already ridden ahead to announce their approach.] All the warriors came out prepared to receive them. Ke-o-kuck passed on alone to the farther end of the camp, dismounted, and was immediately surrounded by his wives and children.
His companions related to the chiefs and warriors what had taken place, and said that they were requested by Ke-o-kuck to [decide whether they would keep the appointment]. The chiefs and warriors resolved on meeting the Sioux in council, as Ke-o-kuck had promised them, the next day; and sent a young warrior to inform him of the result.
At day-break next morning, Ke-o-kuck was mounted on one of his [best horses]. The chiefs and warriors took up the line of march toward the Sioux camp, with all their [arms].
As they approached, Ke-o-kuck perceived that the Sioux were drawn up in strong force. He halted his warriors after crossing the creek and advanced with the chiefs; then, reflecting that the Sioux might fire upon them and kill all their chiefs, he directed the chiefs to halt, and advanced alone toward the Sioux camp.
He was well mounted on a proud horse that pranced and showed his rider to advantage. On his near approach he discovered that the advance line of Sioux warriors were painted black; and when about fifty yards off, the Sioux fired their guns in the air, grounded their arms, and threw down their powder horns.
The Sioux chief advanced alone to meet Ke-o-kuck and shook hands. They were old acquaintances, having been to Washington City together. The whole party of Sioux now rushed up to shake hands with Ke-o-kuck, and his chiefs and warriors, who had all come up. Sioux women, running with their children on their backs, called aloud:
“We have made peace with the Sacs.”
A large space was cleared by the Sioux for the Sacs and Foxes, and they were motioned to range themselves in line, while the Sioux did the same. The high priest, or master of ceremonies, proceeded to the fire in the middle of the square, cut a slice of flesh from a roasted dog, went to the Sioux chief, and invoked the Great Spirit to witness the sincerity of their hearts in making the peace. He then proceeded to Ke-o-kuck and went through the same ceremony, and alternately gave the consecrated meat until the ceremony was completed.
They were then treated with a feast of buffalo and marrow bones, shook hands and parted.
Ke-o-kuck and his party returned to the place where the women and children had made their encampment. The Sioux warriors soon paid them a visit and danced about them in a menacing manner. The Sac warriors folded their arms and looked with contempt upon their movements. The Sioux returned to their camp, when their chief and two of his followers paid a visit to Ke-o-kuck and his chiefs.
[The following morning Ke-o-kuck’s warriors in turn rushed upon the Sioux camp, surrounded it, displayed feats of horsemanship as if in battle, dismounted, and danced.]
The Sioux promised to keep the peace four years. The Sacs and Foxes consented to make peace, but did not stipulate the time. The Sioux broke up their camp, and started to the west to their hunting grounds. The Sacs and Foxes returned to their former encampment, and remained until they had killed eighty buffalo, and then came back to their villages.
A-SEM-MA-LESS A-TOU-WA-NIN-NE [spelling partly uncertain],
Rock Island, August, 1833.

Pre-Emption Claims.
Circular to Registers and Receivers of the United States Land Offices.
GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
May [17?], 1833.
Gentlemen: Subjoined is the copy of an act of Congress, approved on the 2d of March last, entitled “An act to revive the act entitled ‘An act supplementary to the several laws for the sale of public lands.’”
“Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That in all cases in which persons were settlers or occupants of the public lands, prior to the first day of May, 1832, and were authorized to enter under the provisions of the act entitled ‘An act supplementary to the several laws for the sale of the public lands,’ approved [date in scan unclear], and were prevented from making their entries, in consequence of the public surveys not having been made and returned, or where the land was not attached to any land district, or where the same has been reserved from sale in consequence of a disputed boundary between two States, or between a State and a Territory, the said occupants shall be permitted to enter the said lands on the same conditions, in every respect, prescribed in said act, within one year after the surveys are made, or the land attached to a land district, or the boundary line established; and if the land shall be proclaimed for sale before the expiration of one year aforesaid, then the said settlers shall be permitted to enter before the sale thereof.”
The provisions of the above act give the right of pre-emption to [persons] who were entitled to the benefits of a pre-emption entry for [half-quarter] sections of land under the former law, but who were prevented from making an entry from one of the following causes, to wit:
1st. Where the public surveys were not made and returned prior to [October, 1832?]; or,
2d. Where the land was not attached to any land district; or,
3d. Where the land has been reserved from sale in consequence of a disputed boundary between two States, or between a State and a Territory.
The party applying for the benefit of the act is required to file his or her affidavit before a magistrate or other officer duly qualified by law to administer oaths, setting forth the fact that he or she is an actual settler and house-keeper on public lands [not already purchased from the Government], and that the half-quarter section applied for includes his or her improvement. This affidavit is to be sustained by the affidavit of one or more disinterested persons, substantiating the fact to your entire satisfaction.
FORM OF THE AFFIDAVIT.
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am an actual settler, and a house-keeper, on a tract of public land, viz: the —— quarter of section ——, in township ——, range No. ——, and hereby apply for the —— quarter of said section, in virtue of the provisions of an act of Congress approved on the 2d day of March, 1833, entitled “An act [to revive the act] supplementary to the several laws for the sale of public land;” which [quarter] includes my improvement: And I do further swear (or affirm) that I have not entered, under the act to which it is supplemental, at this or any other Land Office of the United States, any land in quarter-quarter sections, in my own name, or in the name of any other person.
[The circular next warns against persons entering more land than authorized and gives a second affidavit.]
FORM OF AFFIDAVIT.
I (or we) do solemnly swear (or affirm) that the land above described is intended to be entered for my (or our) personal benefit, and not in trust for another; and that the same is intended for the purposes of cultivation (or, as the case may be), and hereby apply for [the appropriate quarter-quarter section]; and that I (or we) have not entered under the act of [1832], or under the act of 2d March, 1833, at this or any other Land Office in the United States, any land in quarter-quarter sections, in my (or our) name, or in the name of any other person.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ELIJAH HAYWARD.

Illinois and Michigan Rail Road.
This subject appears to receive [much attention] among our citizens of late, and a strong desire is manifested to carry into execution the long contemplated improvement. The agitation of this question now, is probably owing in part to the rapid emigration to that section of country north of the Illinois river, and the practicability of making the northern route the channel for the transportation of merchandise, which now can be made at a cheaper rate, in less time, and with greater certainty than by the way of New Orleans.
The want of a rail road from Lake Michigan to the Illinois river must soon be very sensibly felt, [because] that section of the State is increasing in population to a degree unparalleled in the history of any country.
With these facts before us, we should lose no time in making necessary preparations for the construction of so important a work, and one that is likely to be of so much benefit not only to this State, but the whole western country. If the State have not the means sufficient to justify her to commence the work upon her own footing, they are at hand, and may be applied to that use if a right course is taken to obtain them. There is but little doubt that capital in abundance could be procured, upon equitable terms, to carry on the improvement to its final completion, in the course of two or three years; whereas, if delay be made until the State becomes able to meet the expense from her own resources, posterity can only be benefited.
As to the practicability of an extra session of the legislature for the purpose, as has been urged by the citizens of Chicago, we think [the question] should not be overlooked. Some plan should be proposed that would be likely to meet the approbation of the people. At the last session the “rail-road bill,” which was [introduced], met with opposition in both branches of the legislature, and was [finally laid] upon the table.
We have understood the Governor is not averse to calling a session, provided it be the wish of the people. Public sentiment could be ascertained by citizens meeting together throughout the State, and making known their views on the subject.
We deem it proper at this time, to lay before our readers the views of the Governor upon the subject, that all may have a fair opportunity of judging of the course he will pursue in relation to the construction of the contemplated railroad.
Extract from the Governor’s Message.
“The contemplated communication between the Illinois river and Lake Michigan, and the construction of it, being entirely within the State, is local; but if we regard the benefits resulting from it to the whole nation, and as a connecting link to the great chain of inland water communication between New Orleans and some of the Atlantic States, it is clearly national. The extent of inland navigation that will be opened when this canal is completed, will not be equalled in any country; and the benefits will be equally and extensively felt. The political influence of all such works is also very apparent. They will bind and connect closely together the various parts of the extended confederacy.
“The report of the canal commissioners will be laid before you; by which you will learn all the important facts connected with that great and beneficial work. It is evident to my mind, that we have not the means within ourselves for its immediate completion. Nor is there any prospect for the speedy sale of the lands granted by Congress sufficient to carry on the work. Some plan for raising a fund should be adopted; and if the Legislature should not be opposed to loaning money on a moderate interest, I would recommend an application to Congress to grant scrip, receivable at the land offices in this State, in exchange for the lands heretofore granted and remaining unsold. The subject being presented to Congress in its proper light, there is no doubt the application will be successful.
“[Indiana and Missouri] are deeply interested in the completion of this canal, and I would respectfully invite their attention to it, and ask their co-operation [or memorial to Congress].
“[In 1832] I [considered] the subject, and seemed inclined to the belief that to charter a company, with proper restrictions, was the most practicable manner by which the contemplated improvement could be carried into execution.
“Among other objects of paramount interest and importance, which will claim a portion of your consideration, is the contemplated connexion of the waters of the Illinois river with Lake Michigan. This work, of such vital importance not only to Illinois, but the whole West, has been surveyed by successive engineers of competency, whose reports are and will be before you; and it is reserved for your wisdom to [choose the proper plan], and effect the improvement, one of the greatest and most beneficial probably in the Union.
“You will take under your serious consideration the comparative advantages of the two methods, the rail road and canal, which have been contemplated for making this desirable communication, and decide on their merits. I have [previously stated that], if the decision rested with me, I would prefer a rail road; I consider it the only practicable mode of connexion. I submit to your wisdom the propriety of chartering a company, with the proper restrictions, for a term of years, to accomplish the work. On principles just to the public and to the company, [it may be accomplished] without expense to the State.”
— Vandalia Whig.

Emigration.
Emigrants are coming by thousands into Illinois, and from all quarters of the Union. [One company], arrived in our village, and drove up in front of the market house, and after about ten weeks upon the journey, had enjoyed good health during the time. They design to settle in Sangamon County, to which we bid them welcome.
A few days previous a company of emigrants from Green County passed through this place. Our northern counties are daily receiving inhabitants from New-York, Ohio, and the Eastern States; Kentucky is pouring out her population. The military tract also receives largely, and some of the wanderers who were driven off to the South by a certain cold winter, are bending their steps back to the richer land.
We calculate that Illinois will increase her number of inhabitants the present season by emigration between 20 and 30,000.

Singular accident.
On Friday, the 20th, a young lady of Valatia [probably Valatie, N. Y.] was dressing or combing her hair in the cotton factory of Mr. [name begins Bal—], when she inadvertently brought it in contact with one of the horizontal iron shafts, which makes 53 revolutions in the minute. This shaft is square, 2 1/2 inches in diameter, and is placed 17 inches from the upper floor.
The young lady was standing nearly under it, and in tossing back her hair, which she had been combing over her face, probably without reflecting that the shaft above her was in motion, it caught fast and she found herself drawn up towards it with the velocity of lightning.
With an extraordinary presence of mind, she grasped the shaft with her hands, at the same time making an astonishingly violent effort to revolve with it, in order that by revolving she might escape a dislocation of the neck. She succeeded during two or three revolutions, but its velocity was such as at length to break her hold, and she was projected a distance of eight or ten feet from the machinery, her entire scalp, from the extremities of the eyes [or forehead] to the third vertebra of the neck, being left upon the shaft and revolving with it.
She rose immediately from the floor and proceeded to stop one of the looms which she tended, while the overseers stopped the wheel.
Drs. Miller and Phillip were immediately called, and with the assistance of such as had not fled or fainted from fright, the scalp was replaced upon the head and adjusted, and the patient conveyed to her room. The scene was truly frightful. The whole head and temples were peeled to the bone, the blood streaming from the small veins and arteries; and to those who had been accustomed to see her beautiful locks, her first appearance impressed the idea of a headless trunk.
Her extraordinary presence of mind seemed at no time to have forsaken her. She was sitting in a chair when [examined], and observed that the back of her head was severely bruised, the only injury of which she was then conscious. She is at present in a comfortable condition, and her physicians state that every symptom indicates a firm re-union of the parts and a speedy recovery. — [Hudson paper].

Gold Region at the North.
It appears from the late Geological Report of Professor Hitchcock, published in the American Journal of Science, that Gold has been found in the southern part of Vermont, and it is confidently expected that it will also be found in Massachusetts. — Balt. Patriot.
How to revive Gilt Frames.
Beat up 3 ounces of white of eggs, with one ounce of chloride of potash or soda, and rub over the frame with a soft brush in this mixture. The gilding will become immediately bright and fresh.
Powder Plot.
About four months ago, Edward Wilcox, Esq., of Westerly, Rhode Island, and late Lieut. Governor of that State, received by a sloop from New-York a leather trunk, with a label attached stating that it came from a relative in this city. Something, however, excited the suspicions of Mr. Wilcox, and he opened the friendly present cautiously. By raising the lid a very little he discovered cords within so situated as to strengthen his suspicions.
He intended to open the trunk when some young men were present. They cut the cords cautiously and opened it, when it was found to contain two horse pistols, with the muzzles buried in upwards of thirty pounds of powder. The cords were attached to the triggers in such a manner, that if the lid had been raised a few inches, the whole would have exploded, and dreadful must have been the effect. The pistols have been sent to this city, in the hope of tracing out the murderous villain, who, to gratify his malice against an individual, would not only have taken his life, but in all probability the lives of a whole family. — Journal of Commerce.
Mortality among Printers.
The mortality among this class of the human race, the present season, has seldom if ever been equalled. Our last mail brings to our notice the departure from this life of no less than [number unclear], [some] of whom died in New-Orleans, and [others] in Natchez. Within the last four or five months [several] others have died in Natchez, making in all in that city six — all young men who had forsaken their homes. — Louis. Phenix.
[Court case — heading damaged.]
[The Circuit Court and Court of Oyer and Terminer for a neighboring county were held in a village the preceding week, Judge Ruggles presiding.] The cause which excited the most public interest was a slander case by [a Methodist clergyman, name unclear], against Eliza [surname unclear]. The slanderous words charged in the plaintiff’s declaration were, in substance, that she had called him a “Scoundrel.”
The defendant pleaded the general issue and justification, alleging that the plaintiff had committed an assault on one Lucy Carpenter, conducting himself toward her in a lewd and indecent manner. The plaintiff proved enough to sustain his action, and the defendant then established the substance of her notice of justification by Lucy Carpenter, who testified to the facts contained in it.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant.

ANCIENT PAPERS.
A friend has left with us several numbers of the New-London Gazette, published in 1767–70; also the Connecticut Gazette, published at New-London [date range unclear]. The papers are about the size of a common [sheet], with three columns, and contain much matter. We copy a few extracts.
The following is from the New-London Gazette of January, 1770:
“The Committee of Merchants in this town having by last night’s Post received a letter from the Committee of Merchants of New-York, wherein it is suggested that I, the subscriber, with others, have imported goods from Great Britain contrary to the Agreement of the Merchants, to which I acceded. This is ONCE FOR ALL, to certify to whom it may concern, That I HAVE not in one single instance directly or indirectly deviated from said agreement; and I now publicly defy all mankind to prove the CONTRARY. And am determined to co-operate with the Merchants, and others, in every legal and laudable measure, for the redress of the grievances under which this province and continent have so long labored.
JOHN HANCOCK.
Boston, Jan. 4, 1770.”
A postscript from the same paper says: “The Post is expected to return from the East next Sunday evening.”
From the New-London Gazette, published at New-London, Conn., Friday February [date unclear], 1767:
“LONDON, Nov. 15, 1766. — A Certain noble Lord last week, eat five pounds of beef steaks at a supper for a wager of [fifty?] guineas, and afterwards, when quite sober, with four bottles of Burgundy!”
What a fellow this noble Lord would have been for a member of some of our eating clubs at the present day.
“Nov. 20. — It is said that the North Americans will grant and raise a sum equal to what the stamp act would have produced, but that they will do it in their own way, by making an act and assessing it among themselves for that purpose.”
“NEW-YORK, Jan. 26, 1767. — Monday last in the evening, a grand entertainment and ball was given by the gentlemen officers of the army, to the ladies and gentlemen of this city, at which, we hear, there was the most numerous and brilliant appearance of both sexes that ever was known in this place.”
The following is from the Connecticut Gazette:
“BOSTON, Feb. 27. — Saturday last, six or eight convicts from the county of Hampshire, embarked for the Castle, to be there kept for a longer or shorter term; some for theft, and [others] for counterfeiting money. Among them [was] a famous thief, who [stole] a countryman’s watch, and left in its stead the following text: ‘Thou shalt seek me, but shalt not find me.’ We may now add, ‘without applying at the Castle.’” — [Rome Telegraph?]
The Fathers of the West.
Those who know the situation of the Territory beyond the Alleghany mountains fifty years since, cannot but be astonished at the unparalleled progress of population and improvement which has been made in that comparatively short space of time.
In the fall of 1782 a large party of Kentuckians, under the command, we believe, of the celebrated Daniel Boone, destroyed the Indian settlements on the Miami in order to break up the bands that were making continual incursions upon the white settlements south of the Ohio. Upon returning they encamped on the banks of that river, and when they parted to repair to their respective homes, they pledged themselves that fifty years from that day, the survivors of the company should meet again upon the same spot.
The time arrived last fall, but the meeting was prevented by the prevalence of the cholera. What interest such a meeting would excite! How joyful, yet solemn, would be the assemblage of the grey-haired fathers at the sight of each other! [How many] have departed to the land “whence there is no returning.” The lords of the forest have passed away. The scream of the panther and the war-whoop of the savage is no more heard; all is changed save that the booming Ohio still rolls on, the “Father of rivers.” Towns and cities, all the improvements of civilized life, overspread the land which to their remembrance was but a tangled forest; and on the spot where their compact was made beneath the rude shelter of boughs, has arisen “the Queen of the West.”
ENCOURAGING RISING MERIT.
A countryman [speaking] to a little nephew, who had but recently commenced his education, asked:
“And do you like the school, my little man?”
“Yes, sir,” whispered the boy.
“That’s right; you’ll be a brave scholar, I’ll warrant. How [high] are you in your class, my little fellow?”
“Next the head, sir.”
“Next to the head! Come now, you deserve something,” [said the uncle], thrusting four whole cents into the delighted urchin. “And how many are in your class?”
[The punch line is lost at the torn lower edge of the supplied scan.]
A person once said to a father, whose son was noted for laziness, that he thought him very much afraid of work. “Afraid of work,” replied the father; “just lay it down and go to sleep close by the side of it.”
[The next item begins at the damaged bottom edge and cannot be recovered.]
SUPPLIED SCAN PAGE 3
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — Editorial / Prospectus
[The top of the first column is damaged. The article is the newspaper’s statement of principles and purposes.]
[The editor states that the title “Democrat” declares the political principles upon which the paper will be conducted.] The principles of the “Democrat” cannot be mistaken. [It supports popular and republican government, the Union, and measures it believes calculated to promote the public welfare.] The paper will not be so blindly attached to men or party as to sacrifice the public good. It will be governed by measures, and not regulated by men.
[The editor turns to the local interests of Chicago and Illinois.] The rapidly increasing commercial importance of Chicago calls loudly for the speedy commencement and completion of the long contemplated Canal or Rail-Road, connecting the waters of Lake Michigan with the Illinois River. This work is one of vast importance not only to Chicago, but to the State and to the Great West. Our columns will be open to those who are conversant with the subject, that the public interest may be awakened to its great importance.
A large portion of our paper will be devoted to the correct development of the resources and advantages of the country, and to such information as will be useful to emigrants and settlers. Having located ourselves permanently at Chicago, we shall spare neither pains nor exertions to render the paper useful and interesting, and we look with confidence to an intelligent community for their countenance and support.
The rapid tide of emigration — the rush of population constantly pouring in upon our Western borders — has become to us an oft-told tale. To it we have never given full faith and credit. We had supposed it but the offspring of interested exaggeration. We had doubted; not because such things were of themselves impossible, but because we could neither see nor conceive why they should be.
But our disbelief has been converted to belief, and our doubts have vanished before the light of actual knowledge and experience. The reality is before us. Chicago — nay, the very spot of ground where we are now writing — a few months since was the abode of the savage; and where we now see a long line of habitations for white men, a short time ago was occupied save by the wigwam of the Indian. The change has been wrought as by magic. More than eight hundred souls may now be found within the limits that within a few short months since included less than one tenth of that number.
The question naturally occurs, what are the inducements held out to the settler? When we reflect upon the enterprise of our countrymen, we cease to wonder at the rapid growth. Situated as Chicago is, [with a navigable stream], the noble Lake opening an easy avenue to the East, a rich surrounding soil, timber accessible, and a climate whose salubrity is almost unquestioned, it cannot but become an important point for trade and settlement.
[The adjoining column discusses transportation costs and markets. One New-York mercantile house has already sent goods by the Lake route, demonstrating that merchandise can be brought west at advantageous rates. The editor asks what the commerce will become when population increases and the harbor and internal improvements are completed.]
The natural advantages of the country for agriculture, trade and commerce have been shown by recent events. The late Treaty has brought strangers and information into Chicago, and the sale of the School Lands has drawn many from various States, enabling them to form their own opinions of the country and its prospects. [High prices obtained for the land are cited as evidence of confidence in Chicago’s future.]
In another column we publish a letter addressed to the citizens of Cook county by the Executive of this State, from which it would seem that the prospect of an extra session of the General Assembly may be considered as almost hopeless. While we are willing in justice to [respect] the course of the Governor, we cannot but regret the want of energy and the great inattention to their best interests evinced by the people of our sister and adjoining counties. [Other States are pursuing internal improvements with greater activity.]
[Illinois, the editorial says, must not remain apathetic where a work of such deep public importance is concerned.]

THE TREATY.
We cannot forbear, even at this late period, to notice the conclusion by the Commissioners of the Treaty with the Potawatamie Nation and other Indians of this vicinity. By this Treaty, the Indians have relinquished all their right and title to the lands in this State, and to an important reservation in the neighborhood, and [are to retire] to [lands westward / near the St. Joseph — wording partly unclear].
The difficulties attending a negotiation with the Indians, and in the outset the many clashing interests operating, for some days rendered the accomplishment of this great and very important object doubtful. Col. Owen’s influence with the Chiefs and Headmen of the nation had a most happy effect in bringing the Indians to understand the importance of treating with the Government.
The outcome of the Commissioners’ labors [was favorable]. The stipulations of the Government were liberal toward the Indians; [indeed] more so, however, than was required by a high sense of that justice which has always been pursued [by the Government]. The improvident and [dependent] native is peaceably removed from the settlements [to] the wilds of the “Far West,” where [he may be free from encroachment and enjoy his own possessions].
The result secures to the peaceable and enterprising citizens a tract of country of the highest importance and value, not only to individuals, but to the wealth of the State. The richness of the soil, the salubrity [of the country], its position near Lake Michigan, and other advantages make this part of Illinois of immense value.
[The editorial continues that Chicago is the natural depot or point of communication for the region and that Federal harbor improvements and internal improvements will further increase its importance.]

School Lands — result of sale.
We present to the public, a brief statement of the result of the recent sale of School Lands at this place; but brief as the statement is, it will be read with pleasure, not only by those who, as parents, will, in the education of their children, reap the benefits arising from the proceeds of this sale, but by every friend to the diffusion of general knowledge throughout the country.
[The article lists several sections sixteen in townships in and around Chicago, the Du Page country, and near Hickory Creek, with the sums for which the school lands sold. The exact township numbers and dollar amounts are too small and blurred in the supplied scan to transcribe without guessing.]
[The editor notes that the aggregate proceeds are highly encouraging and indicate the value placed upon land in the region.]

To our friends / subscribers.
We have requested our friends, and those who can better acquaint themselves with the different sections of the State, to forward the number of the Democrat [or names of subscribers] they think would be most likely to be sustained in circulation. [The paper asks readers to obtain subscribers, send names promptly, and aid in extending circulation.]
We have taken the “Democrat” to different post offices throughout this State, as well as Missouri and Michigan Territory, and placed [copies / subscription papers] there. We solicit the assistance of Post-Masters and friends in extending its circulation.

Newspaper notices.
We have received the No. [of] a new paper, by R. K. Fleming, entitled the “St. Clair Gazette,” and printed at Belleville, St. Clair county. It is a neat and well executed paper.
We have also before us the first No. of the Alton American, published at Lower Alton, Madison county, Ill., by [editor’s name unclear]. [The paper is praised and wished success.]
The Schooner [name unclear], Capt. [name unclear], from Buffalo, arrived at this port on the 17th inst., freighted with a full cargo of Merchandise for Chicago and the vicinity.
The name of [Little?] Grove Post-Office in Sangamon [or another] county has been changed to that of Berlin. A new Post-Office has been established in the [same] district by the name of Peru; Thomas M’Knight appointed Post-Master.

Education.
[An editorial paragraph urges better schools and a more systematic education for the young. Portions of the left margin are damaged.]
Mr. Editor would beg leave to make a few remarks [upon education]. [He asks what firmer foundation can be laid for the future prosperity of a community than the education of its children.] A school has recently been established in this village, [and the writer urges parents to support it].
[Education will give the young] more real value [than material advantages alone]. It is not enough that children inherit property; their minds and morals must be cultivated. [The writer asks parents to watch] their children trace the path of science, and climb the steep of eminence; and may you at last exclaim with the mother [that education has been their friend].

Letter from Governor John Reynolds.
BELLEVILLE, Illinois, Nov. 6, 1833.
To Col. Owen, President, and Dr. Kimberlie, Secretary, of a numerous and respectable meeting of the citizens of Cook county; to the committee appointed by said meeting; and to the citizens of said county.
Gentlemen: — I had the honor to receive, sometime since, a copy of the preamble and resolutions adopted in said meeting, requesting me, as the Governor of the State, to convene the General Assembly, and to recommend to them the speedy commencement of a Rail Road, connecting Lake Michigan with the navigable waters of the Illinois River.
I have delayed to answer you until the present time, not from any want of respect to you, but in order to give the people of the State time and opportunity to act on the subject.
I am much pleased to know, that you are so ardently interested to accomplish the greatest improvement in all the West. There is no improvement which would be of such advantage to the whole Valley of the Mississippi as that connecting the Lakes with the navigable waters of the Mississippi at this point, and which would, at the same time, cost so little. With this view, I have introduced the subject to the two preceding General Assemblies of the State. Yet, nevertheless, I am compelled to believe, that it is not advisable at this time, to convene the General Assembly, for this, or any other object. [The subject] is now before the people.
The embarrassed condition of our Treasury, and the exorbitant taxes already paid by the people, induce me to believe, that it is not policy at this time to call an extra session of the General Assembly. I have called on the proper officers to exhibit the state and condition of our revenue and our debts, which will show you, in [a clear manner], the great impropriety to incur any additional debt whatever — and the people who pay taxes can testify that the taxes are sufficiently high.
I may also remark, that only [a few] months have elapsed since the subject has been before the people, and I have received no other solicitation for a called session; therefore, the conclusion is strong, that it is not the will of a majority of the people there should be an extra session of the Legislature at this time.
Public officers are the servants of the people, and are bound to obey the will of a majority. Acting on this principle, should I be convinced that a majority of the people deem it necessary to convene the General Assembly, I would cheerfully [announce / order] it forthwith to be done.
[The Governor further argues that an extra session would itself cost money and increase burdens. He suggests that the improvement might instead be undertaken by a properly chartered company, with sufficient capital and restrictions protecting the public, and without expense to the State.]
With respect, I am your obedient servant,
JOHN REYNOLDS.

From the Hartford Times.
[The paper quotes an article concerning the Charleston Mercury and the proposal to impeach President Andrew Jackson.]
We subjoin an extract from an article that lately appeared in the Charleston Mercury, of the [date unclear]. A few years hence it will scarcely be believed, that party asperity and bitterness could have led to such disgraceful language against one of the best and loftiest [men] that adorns the pages of American [history]. Since there has been found a man so depraved as to advance such sentiments as those that are to be found below, we are not surprised to find him a nullifier.
[The writer compares the effort with Josiah Quincy’s earlier motion to impeach Thomas Jefferson, saying Quincy was left unsupported and that a similar fate awaits any movement against the present Chief Magistrate.]
Impeachment of Gen. Jackson.
“That articles of impeachment should be preferred against this lawless tyrant, has now become the conviction, as it has long been the opinion and the hope of every patriot — every freeman — every freeman.
“A glorious immortality awaits the high-minded and intrepid statesman who shall, ‘without fear, favor or affection,’ discharge his duty to his country, and by an instrument no less blessed and exalted than that of nullification, arrest the desperate [and] unholy crusade of this reckless Autocrat, [who has] insulted the genius of the constitution and violated liberties of the citizen.”
[End of quoted extract.]

Removal of the Deposites.
The removal of the government deposites from the U. S. Bank has called forth considerable acrimony from the opposition presses, but nothing more. No sound reasoning is [offered] to show the measure to be unpolitic. If the expressions of the people are [a guide], we hear no complaining. They apparently are as well satisfied that [public money] should be aided by the government [or distributed among sound State institutions], and a fair distribution of its favors should [be made], as that the whole should be monopolized by one, and especially when the charter of that one is about expiring, with little prospect of a renewal.
[The remainder of this article is partly obscured at the foot of the column.]

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Harrisburgh Reporter sums up the result of the recent election in Pennsylvania, on which the New-York Sentinel remarks:
“The result of the recent elections in Pennsylvania is of the most gratifying kind. The removal of the deposits, so far from alienating the Democracy of the State in which the operations and influence of the bank might be supposed most extensively felt, seems rather to have knit closer the attachment to the republican administration. To both branches of the Legislature they have elected immense majorities; and in joint ballot the democratic members will outnumber the anti-masons and national republicans together, by forty-one votes.”
The following abstract is made from lists published in several Philadelphia papers:
Senate — Democrats, 23; National Republicans, 2; Anti-Masons, 6.
Assembly — Democrats, [figure unclear]; National Republicans, [figure unclear]; Anti-Masons, [figure unclear].
Every State senator, nine in number [according to the Reporter], elected at the late election, is the decided friend of both the general and State administrations. Four of those whose seats have been filled were in the opposition. This is truly a splendid triumph.

GEORGIA ELECTION.
Returns from 50 counties have been received, which reduce Mr. Crawford’s majority to about 900 votes. About 30 counties remain to be heard from, and there is a strong probability that Mr. Lumpkin, the Union candidate, has been elected. — N. Y. Standard.

CIVIL WAR IN MISSOURI.
The St. Louis Republican of Tuesday contains an account of a series of affrays in Jackson County, Missouri, between citizens of that County and the Mormons, in which between twenty and thirty citizens and several Mormons were KILLED. The Mormons, according to the account, acted only on the defensive. At the date of the last accounts there was a tremendous excitement in the county. No one could calculate the issue of it. Among the persons killed, were some of the most respectable citizens.

[From the Washington Globe.]
ALABAMA.
We give from the Charleston Courier an account of the affair of Owens, out of which the excitement in Alabama has arisen. We regret exceedingly that the restless Nullifiers have found means of transferring the seat of their machinations to a neighboring State, and that they are in a fair way to involve Alabama in those troubles, which they took care to avoid at home, when put to the test. To see the true hearted and generous people of Alabama, dragged into the perils of Nullification, and made the scape-goat of a most criminal conspiracy against the Union, is a consummation for which Messrs. Calhoun, McDuffie, and the rest are now laboring. A letter which we have from South Carolina, we annex, shows that the Calhoun faction have in fact seized upon the Creek country as furnishing a sort of middle ground, on which to fight the battle of Nullification, and as affording them means of dragging a sister State into the controversy.
Case of Owens.
We have from an authentic source the following statement of this unpleasant affair:
“The territory, inhabited by the Creek Nation, belongs to the United States by actual purchase, although it is included in the limits of what will be the State of Alabama. When it was purchased of the Indians, it was provided by a clause in the treaty, that the Indians should be the possessors up to a stated time (about three years hence), and that each of those who cultivated farms should have a ‘reserve’ of [300?] acres to dispose of, after it (the reserve) was surveyed, as he pleased. The Indians, therefore, are in possession of the soil.
“An act of the Legislature of Alabama divides the territory into counties; and because the President did not formally object to this, some of the Alabamians say that the State properly owns the soil. This act has induced many of the whites to settle among the Indians for the purpose of making money in the most iniquitous way, viz., by cheating them out of their ‘reserves’ and negroes.
“In this [class] was Owens. Many of them forcibly dispossess the poor unprotected Indian of his house and cultivated lands. Owens had the enviable honor of being of this class also. The Indians have a right, granted by the treaty, of complaining of those who thus injure them. They complained among others of Owens. It was proved, that he had dispossessed one man of his house and farm; a young girl of another farm of 100 acres of valuable land, and broke her arm for retaining it; and with others (among them a dentist,) robbed the Indian graves — the dentist for the teeth, and Owens for the silver ornaments and beads, which are always buried with the Indian dead, and these he afterwards sold in his shop.
“For these acts of violence and robbery, and outrages, the United States Marshal informed Owens that he must leave the ‘nation.’ This he refused to do. While those charged with his removal were attempting to eject him, he endeavored to blow them up in his house, but failed; and afterwards when summoned to surrender, he drew arms, and was shot. The Marshal had previously extended to him all the indulgence in his power, and on one occasion obtained his promise to go; but his wife urged him to remain.
“This is the man about whom, and this the true state of the affair, about which some are endeavoring to create a difficulty with the general government. The nullifiers contend [that it is an invasion of Alabama sovereignty].”
[Continued in the next printed column:]
It is unconstitutional — the Alabama nullifiers assert a claim to what does not, and never did, belong to their State — a clause in the constitution of the State positively disclaiming in favor of the United States any right to the Creek lands.
Comment on the above details is scarcely necessary — they disclose a revolting picture of violence and oppression. Owens was an outlaw and desperado, robbing and committing other outrages on those whom the government was bound to protect — ferocity belied his lineage, and a greedy avarice invaded even the sanctuary of the dead. He was, too, an open contemner of the government, abusing its clemency and defying its power, and met death in the act of violence to its officers.
Is it not then strange that men should be found so blinded by the spirit of party, as to stigmatize this act of justice, sought by and done upon a felon, if not in deed, as foul murder? It is even stranger that it should be denounced as an invasion of State sovereignty, and seized as an occasion for collision with the General Government. We feel satisfied that it was a case of justifiable homicide, done unavoidably in the execution of lawful authority, upon one who provoked his fate by unlawful and armed resistance.
But let it be viewed in any aspect — we cannot see that the sovereign rights of Alabama are involved in it. If Owens was killed without lawful authority, or if he was slain wantonly or unnecessarily, even in the execution of an undoubted law, those who so acted violated law, or abused the law, must answer for the deed before the courts of the country and abide the judgment of their peers. It differs not from any other case where a federal officer may inflict death in attempting to arrest a wrongdoer, or otherwise execute the law. The sovereignty of Alabama is about as much concerned in the killing of Owens, for resisting with arms his arrest by federal officers from the Indian Territory, as the sovereignty of South Carolina would be in the killing of a pirate or a mail robber in the streets of Charleston, for resisting with arms his arrest by the federal Marshal.

ABBEVILLE, S. C., October 13, 1833.
My Dear Sir: —
I am confident, that it is not generally known, that the nullifiers in this State still keep up their military force with all the preparations necessary on an approach of hostilities.
I have been at home but eight days; during five of these days, this Village has been invested by a strong military force, composed of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, organized and trained as a separate and distinct corps from that of the militia. In the militia, who consist almost exclusively of the Union Party, [the men] are not mustered; and under sundry late elections of officers the Governor has positively refused to commission them.
But yesterday the great display was performed before the regiment of nullifiers. The Governor, attended by his Aids-de-camp Mr. McDuffie, two Calhouns [and others], besides a large number of gentlemen and ladies, [was present]. In the name of the State, a Flag [was presented] to be respected as the Flag of South Carolina.
In this speech the Governor [abused] the President in the lowest and most vulgar [terms]. He stated that South Carolina was [as] brave and determined as the tiger within his den; that his bloody Bill had [aroused] the generous and chivalrous spirits of [the State]; that they never would lay down [their arms] until Congress repealed the force [bill]. [He] directed their attention to Alabama, [saying that] in the hour of trial South Carolina would aid her in maintaining her [rights], [with expressions against] the despot Jackson.
Now after this disclosure [and the efforts of Mr.] Calhoun in Georgia, [can there be] any doubt but disunion is the object? I enquired yesterday of [a person], why all this military — were they going to fight? [He] answered, the General Government [had wronged them]; Jackson had cheated C. Calhoun [out of] the Presidency, but the South [would have] a President of their own, and would have him in spite of the Tyrant. Thus you have pretty much the same [sentiments] taught them in their secret [meetings].
The Alabama business grows worse. This winter we shall have nullification in a very serious form before us. Governor Gayle [supports or deals with] settlers on the Creek lands, and the Secretary of War declares [or is told] that the treaty of March 1832, between the Creeks and the United States, “is not law,” [and may be] declared null and void by the [State authorities].
The treaty [provides, in substance, that the United States shall survey the Creek lands as soon as possible after ratification; that principal Creeks and families shall receive reserved sections or half-sections for a specified period, with patents to those who elect to remain; and that intruders shall be removed].
[The final lines are cut off by the bottom edge of the supplied scan and the article continues beyond what is visible.]

End of supplied material
This transcription covers all three page images present in the supplied PDF. Supplied scan page 2 is explicitly headed Vol. I, No. 1, Tuesday, November 26, 1833. Supplied scan page 1 separately shows the date “NOV. 19, 1833.” at its top. Because the supplied images may not be a contiguous set, this transcription preserves their supplied order and does not assume that every scan belongs to the same physical issue.
