CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — OCR-ASSISTED RESEARCH TRANSCRIPTION
Issue date: May 20, 1835
Weekday: Wednesday
Volume: II
Number: 5
Publisher/editor: J. Calhoun
Place of publication: Chicago, Illinois
Source: Jan1835-Jul1835.pdf, PDF pages 9–12
Physical layout: 4 newspaper pages; 6 printed columns per page; 24 source-column markers
Metadata note: The source visibly repeats Vol. II, No. 5 after the January 21 issue; the printed number is preserved.
Transcription note: Historical spelling and punctuation are retained where legible. The source was re-cropped into its six true physical columns after a rejected seven-way test split real columns and caused omissions. Each final crop received independent Apple Vision and Tesseract passes. Bracketed text marks genuine uncertainty or physical loss; dense lists and small advertisements remain the highest-risk matter.

CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. WEDNESDAY, MAY 20, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 5.

[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 1]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
1 OL eee es

SF... ae

cme gesecllamy-
Taree Jolly Husbands. —Three jol-
een aut in the country, by the
y be (Tim Watson, Joe Brown, anc Bill
amet at late one evening drinking at a
Raikes vero, untll being pretty well corned,
ie oad ‘that gach one, on reluroing
My 1B edo the first thing his wife told
ae ar of which, he should the next
pide ‘ the bill. ‘They then separated
bal las engaging to meet again the
ie a J and ave an honest account of
wi cies at at hats so for as related
af the bul
eye ee, Tun and Joe were
ut it was some time be-

Tan began

tht f9)
Toe next morn
sip at their pasts bul
vee Bul made his appearance,
ist

Yor see when | entered the house the

angie was Olly and as the fire gave he
smmeriog of light, 1 came near wa gz
gully into a pot of batter that the pan-
re ere to be made of this morning. My
wha was dreall ly out of pony a
nag up so long, said to me eee y
po pat your foot in the batter! wat as
ser, Magay,” said J; and thereupon,
oat the least hesitation, [set my fot in
¢ pos of patter, and then—went to bea
Neat Joe Brown told his story. ‘My
fe, sand he, “bad already retired to rest
‘oot usual sleeping room, which adjoins the
rehen, and the door of which was left ajar.
‘a beingable to navigate perfectly well
os koow, Lanade a dreadful clattering
og the hocsetioll furniture, and ny wife,
rovers pleasant tone, tuwled out Do
ws leak that porridge-pot, Jue!” No soon-
gdthen done, I seized hold-of the bail
the pot and. striking it against the chim-
ib, broke itin a hundred pieces. —
wer this eaplit, Pretired to rest, and got
cutiain lecture all night for my pains.

li was now Hill's turn to give an, account
uase’ wach he did with a very long
ce, 2s fillaws—"*My wile gave me the
y command in the world: for as
nis hiundering up stairs in the dark, she
ed out, “Da break your rotlen neck, do,
l” “Vit be cms—d if Ido, Kate,”
iT, as] gathered myself up, ‘Vil seoner
toe bill” And so landlord, bere’s the
fos you. It asthe fast time UM aver
‘ fise’ dollars on the cummands of my’
5

“4 lo regard
sasope degree below these individ-
ea living offorded them without
al lator; bat that portion ys a small ane
7s oNo maa ch senza, na, true gentle.
veer cree thie aren point of science
afl virture, sad even proctical politenes, the
ersiie weelanes Lthe United States are
cial 25 pe ¢.as3 of pe se, The work shar
#elsced 28 many great mien as the col-
isit hss done es much for natural
spi,and more for region, than the
tung ra; and has done as much to devel-
‘ects as hoarded wealth, ‘Phe individ-
therefore who stands up, in the face of the
tee Wal judge Weecitizens by their
“Mo sabaist without labor, must be desti-
two very necessary qualifiea-
eand common sense, With
wo bis side te would be enabled to
Y intellect 1% he tan, and the oper
upou that intellect, the

il Thought.—Whenever care
e dees come to me, at goes away, |.
6, ftom my side a8 1 saunter alone:
unks of the peaceful waters and iUs a
Mis Any, take jt from my lips, that
along that grassy bank, apout the;
will do more than make al
art happy it will makeone happier
itiore than that, it will smoothen |
on the angry man's braw, and if

Se out al he breast of the worldly man
fg sgh, his envy, or his il-will to his
Mt -—Joky Banim.

cots Cheng A few
he clerk atone of the chapels at
tay Previous to the commencement
shail dirtied his hands by putting
_ aia the fire, and unconsciously rub.
2) fice, besmeated it su as fo resemble

At Volcan He turned into the read~
Ki, Where he naturally

areca great]
. erably increased
of sare eat the firs Tine of the ea
ot bgitness of my feee.? The |!
egation could nolonger preserve

aa involuntary laugh burst

Fol the chapel.— Linerpaol

Mon, which yeas fe

betery come

Pe ilting about a tavern, took
: f geeen spectacles which lay on;
= Pat them on tie nose, and turning
erst Landlord, how
Dost you think they
#D think they do,??
Hihoe bt
“hey hide « part of your |

Auth

kr UP pe Be * me ane

on EDAD ~The water that!
SES Sotcongeal in winter |.

the hear

nts of triendsh ip whieh flow |!
ARNOLD be frozen, by adver-

5 year
1g St. Geri e 8 of age, in

Grek pl) Pare, who trans
Wel ty eaalab and Chinese,
Steumnavinator DMUs.


[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 2]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
AMERICAN STONE,
A NEWLY DISCOVEZED CEMENT.
Longinus never made a truer remark than
when he said a "democracy was the cradle of
ecience."
The unlettered mind, expanding to
its utmost power of extension, develope pow-
ers that lie dormant and repressed beneath the
chains of a monarch and despotism. Discov-
eries and inventions are created in the combin-
ations of thought, which seems nimost magi-
cal and supernatural compared writh the results
of intellectual operation in governments of
force. Our own country has demonstrated
the truth of these remarks in her Franklin, her
Falton, hitney, and many others, and in the
astonishing rapidity with which she has appli
ed and improved upon almost every useful art.
We come now to record another remarka-
ble invention, which has been before slightly
alluded to but of winch we can now, from our
own personal obeervation of the specimens, and
from farther information obtained from the in-
vanter speake in more positice terms.
Obadiah Parker, a native of New Hampshire,
Mr.
and for many years past a respectable resilent
in Onondaga county in our state, and now in
thus city, has, after numerous experiments,
discovered a composition-stucco or cement
which from a state of liquid inortar, hardens in
a fin days—any eight or ten—into solid sub-
stance or stone, as impenetrable almost as
granite, and susceptible of a beautifil polish.
It is, apparentiy, chiefly of a calcareous na-
ture, as like the hardest kind ofmarble. Any
color may be given it; and it not only defie-
but actually seg sire: greater density an sol.
ility, and less brittleness, under the change of
the atmosphere. Ho has obtained a series of
patents-and at Catskill, recently bmit, as n
specimen, the wall of a small edifice eight feet
high which in eight days-recalling to mind
he fable of Medus-perfectly petrified with
ts door, windows, &e. all of which is testified
o by the owner to us personally, and by the
certificate of the judge of the county and the
principal citizens of the place. It is impossible
o foresce the consequences of such a disenvery
I surposses, without doubt all other cenen s
and the material is so cheap that entire houses
f'any shape or dimensions, fortification, cannls
queduets, &r. may thus be built up in a few
lays, which would utterly supersede brick naw
tone, and cffect a complete resolution in nreh-
tecture.
What will not art yot imitate and
complieh?—.V: Y. Star.
It is probable thnt this American Stone, is a
omposition similar to the cement spoken of
elow ns having been found in use at Algiers by
he Fronch at the conquest of that City.
The inte conquest of Algiers by the French
ins inade known a cement used in the public
worka of that city. It in composed of twn
arts of osies, three of clay, and one of sand
Pis composition, called be the Moors "Tabbi,"
eing
again mixed with oil, resists the incle-
nencies of the weather better than marble it-
f
elt.
d
Presercation of Iron from rust.—A mas-
C
ic or covering for this purpose, proposed by
he Society 'Encouragement, Paris, is os
ollows: Eighty parts of the pounded brick,
assed through a silk sieve, are mixed with
wenty parts of litharge; the whole is then
1
ubbed up by the muller with linseed oil, so
0
is to form a thick paint, which may be dilu-
e
ed with spirits of turpentine; well cleaning
0
he iron before it is applied. From an ex
erience of two ears, upon locks exposed
o the air and covered daily with salt water,
eing coated twice with this mastic, the good
P
flects of this preparation base been thorough-
y proved — Yaukee Farmer.
Payment of the National Debt.—A meeting
t the city of Washington most appropriately
elected Thursday, the ath, of January, inet.
u which to celebrate the final extinction of
ur National Cebt; tons aniting the com-
nemoration of two important and glorious no-
ionnl Frents-the end of our National In-
ebted ess, and the sanguishment of oar Na-
b
ional Enemies—the same illustrions personage
1l
ommanding the one, and presiding over the
ther achievement.
R. M. Johason of Ky. Presided, and H. A.
luhlenberg, of Po. ofticinted as Secretary, at
he meeting above alluded to.
U
The object of the neeting being stated to.
ether with the fact, that on the 26th nit. the
nat warract for the final discharge of the pub-
c debt bad been drnwn— Mr. Smith, of Maine
resented a series of Resolutions appropriate
o the occasion, which, at n subsequent meting
sere unanimously ndopted.
b
Burdcn's Patent Horse Shoes. —We were
bown a few days since, some Patent Horse
C
shoes, made at Trey, in a machine, the inven-
ion of M. Burden, the constructor of the eteam-
ti
oat, which was unfortunately lost last year on
he North River.
These shons are manufac-
ti
ured of wrought iron, and the iron is put into
ne end of the machine, and comes out at the
ti
ther end a complete horse shoe, cursed, regu-
ated and unitorin.
We understand the ma-
line throws off thirty in a minute!—This in-
11.
ention cannot fail to secure a liberal recom-
ence to Mr. Burden, who was so grent a suf-
ever in a peconinry point of view, by the lose
J
f his boat.— V. Y. Gaz.
Intemperance is declared to be the prima-
y cause of nearly one-fourth of the cases of
anacy in the
Massachusetts Hospital at
di
Vorcester. Nearly the same proportion ol
ases in the Maryland Hospital is ascribed
S
• the same cause. Excessive use of snuff
set down among the causes in an account
N
in
I the Worcester institution Hard study,
ealously, disappointed affection, loss of pro-
erty, fanaticism, family troubles, are given
• the most prominent causes.
The building of Girard college at Phila-
elphia, is progressing.
The capitals for
L
bed are beautiful, and reflect great credit
pon those who executed them. — East. pa.
John Neal says that Mr. Adams is a ve-
/ promising Ex-President, and ought to be
se

[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 3]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
eee erence rmrmeee
Wolee of the Democracy.

GREAT DEMOCRATIC MEETING.

Tn pursuance of previous public notice, a
large and respectable Meeting of the Demo-
cratic friends of the National Administration
of the town of Chicago, was hel at the Ex.
change Coffee House in said town, on Tues-
day Evening, April 13, 1835.

he meeting was called to order by Col,

- J. V. Owen, and on motion H. HUGUNIN
was called to the Chair, and J. W. E.prepce
and J. C. GOODHUE appointed Secretaries.

On motion of J. Curtiss it was voied to
raise. a committee of five persons to draft reso~
lutions expressive of the views of the Demo-
cratic Party of the town of Chicago, and
Messrs. J. Curtiss, E. B. Williams, J. D.
Caton, D. Carver, and T. J. V. Owen
vere appointed said committee,

The committee after having retired for al.
hort time, returned and reported the follow-}
o¢ Preamble and Resolutions, which were
eperately and unanimously adopted.

Whereas the efforts made and now making |
y the Old Federal party, under various pre
ences, names, and combinations, to conquer |
he Old Democratic: party, by dividing and |;
istracting the same, render it the duty of]
very friend of Democratic Principles, to come
ut openly and decidedly, and act with his|s
litical brethren on all political questions:1 ¢
ind whereas it: is not consistent with the
sages of the Democratic party, nor the rights
f the citizen, to require its members to su
ort candidates for office when they have had
0 voice in their selection: And whereas
here has not heretofore been such an orpan-
‘ation of the party in this Town, County | *
r State, as would give to individual members|

Voice in. the selection of candidates to be |
ipported for office, ar theit just influence in d
plitical questions affecting their interests, | "
rerefore: d

Resolved, That an immediate and thorough
reanization throughout the state, in accor-
ance avith the principles and usages of the
democratic Party, is not only expedient batj ©
solutely necessary to its present united and
ficient action, and its fulure welfare and|2
rosperity. And while we pledge ourselves
use all- necessary and proper means to ef-
et such an orgarlization inthis town, we!!
nestly reconmbnd a simular course to our|!
litical bre hren in the different precinets,
ages, and settlements in this county, and} §
the different countios throughout the state. | i!

Resolved, That there be a committee of| 8
re persons appointed by this meeting whuse
ty it shall be to correspond with our politie| &
friends in the different counties of the state,| 5
il in the different precinets and se tements| ¥

this county upou all matters of political in-| 9
rest to call public meetings of the party
henever such meetings may he necessary—| &

arrange and agree, upon consultation with| 3
ir political brethren in other places, inter-
ted in the same, upon the times and places| ©
‘holding county, district.and State Conven-| 4
ns, Whenever they may be necessary and| ©
ve nolice of the same. yy

Resolved, "That we earnestly. solicit our |!
Hitical friends throughout the state, and es-| >
cially in the different precincts and settle-| ©!
ebts of this county to appoint similar com p
ittees to correspond with our committee as
ove. uf

Resolved, Tht we will meet our political | ¥
ends of other parts of the county in a Con-|°
ntion of delegates to nominate candidates} 9!
r the offices to be filled in August next,.at| 1
ch time and place as may be agreed upon
’ them in consultation with the committee of
e town of Chicago, ”
Resolved, That se will not recognize the
etended claims of any aspirant to any office, | 2
F any person asa candidate for any office
Jess he shall be nominated by aconvention | ¥
rly called at which every member of the
rty has an opportunity of being heard either
person or by his delegate. And that we
II support all nominations made in such con-
ntions and use. all fair and honorable means
secure the election of individuals so brought
fore the people.

Resolved, That the proposed National
vention of the Deinoeratic Party to be
Id at Baltimore, on the 20th May next, for
e purpose of nominating candidates for the
evidency, and Vice Presidency, has our en-
e confidence and approbation, and that we
Il abide by the nominations of that conven-
n fairly made.

Rerolved, ‘That we have entire confidence
the patri-‘ism, intelligence, and Democratic
inciples { the Hon. MARTIN VAN
UREN, and the Hon. RICHARD M.
JHNSON, and that the former is our pre-
ence for the Presidency, and the latter for
2 Vice Presidency.

Resolced, That Cols. Cnantes Pren-
ss, and Wituram C. Greesup, of Van-
lia, be and they hereby are requested to act |.
“the Democratic party of this town in. the
ate Cdnvention to select delegates to the
ational Convention, should such convention,
accordance with the recommendations of our
litical friends io Morgan, and. other coun-
s, be held, and that they be and they hereby
2 Tequested to act and vole in accordance
th the preceding resolation.

On motion af Col. T. ah Owen. -
Resolved, That we cordially approve ¢
, litical course of the Hon. WILLIAM
MAY, our Representative in Congress,
giving an unwavering support to the pre-
it National Administration. 5

On motion of Mr. BE. B. Wiuutams.
Voted to raise a committee of nine to pre
st the meeting with the namey of five suit

at
rn
he
in


[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 4]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
DAY. MAX 20, 1834.5,
der for in the 2d Resolution, and Messrs. 1
J. V Owen, S. W. Sherman, A. Loyd, S
Lincoln, J. C. Goodhue, J. D. Caton, J
Woodbury, A. Bailey, and J. Calhoun, were
appointed said conmittee. During the ab.
sence of the committee a letter from the Hon
N. King, stating that he was detained fam
the meeting by ill health and expressing his
cordial sympathy with us, and his opinion of
he propriety and necessity that we of west
should be up and doing, was read to the mee
Ling.
The committee of nine returned and re-
ported the names of Messrs. J. Curtis, J.
i. Woodworth, T. J. V. Owen, E. B. Wil-
iams, and HI. HUGUNIN, as suitable persons
o compose the corresponding committee of
ive, and said persons were thereupon se-
erally and unanimously chosen said com-
bittee.
On motion. Voted, that the officers of
his meeting be directed to communicate to
Cols. Prentiss, and Greenup, our request that
hey would represent us in the state conren-
on. Voted, that there be 300 copies of the
roceedings of this meeting signed by the
Chairman, and Secretaries, printed; and
hat copies be forwarded to all the Demo
ratic Editors in the state for Publication in
eir several Papers, and that the same be
Published in the Chicago Democrat, when it
ball be recommenced, when the meeting
djourned.
HIRAM HUGUNIN, Ch'n.
J.W. ELDREDGE, & Secretaries.
J. C. GooDHUE,
COUNTY MEETING.
In pursuance of previous public notice, a
ery large and respectable meeting of the
emocratic citizens ol Lisalle county, wras
cla at the Court-louse in Ottawa, on Tues-
ay, the 12th day of May, 1835; The
eeting was called to order by Wm. Stad-
en, and on motion, L. Kisnatt. as called
the chair, and R. P. WooDwortH and
IM. H. GoDDARD appointed Secretaries.
The Chairman addressed the meeting:
i motion of W. H GODDARD,
Resolved, That a committee of five be
pointed to draft resolutions expressive off
e sense of this niceting, whereupon the fol-
wing gentlemen were chosen, viz: R P
FOODWORTII, Wa. STADDEN, WARREN
00, R. H. Morsattand C. R. POTTER.
The committee after having retired for a
ort time, reterned and reported the follow-
g preamble and resolutions, which were u-
binousiy acopted:
Whereas an aristocratical influence has
en eserted for a long time in the United
ates. which has of late taken to its support
e United States Bank, thereby becoming
formidable enemy to the old Democratic
irty, and dangerous to the purity of our
ections: And whereas, to oppose, effectu-
y, the said induence, which is now ma-
ng every esertion, uader various names,
binations and pretences, to divide and
feat the old Democratic party of the Na-
n, it is necessary that there be vigilance,
animity and concert of action among the
ends of Democracy: And whereas it is
lieved that an organization upon such prin-
les as will secure to every member of the
riy, the right and opportunity of being
aru, citber personally or by his deiegate,
all nominations of candidates brought lor-
ard for their suffrages, and in all matters
interest to the party, is truly Democratic,
the only means by which the desired vig-
ace, unanimity and concert of action can
maintained; therefore
Resolved, That tle measures now taking
our political brethren in dillerent counties
this State, to effeci a Deinocratic organi-
ion of the party, in their respective coun
sand throughout the State, receives our
rmest approbation.
resolved, bat as there is not now such
organization of this county, as secures the
bt to every member of the party of being
ard in all matters touching their cotmon
eresi, we will use all fair and bonorable
1
ans in our power to effect such organiza-
J
n in this county, and recommend a similar
arse to our political friends in the dillerent
unties throughout the State.
Hesoleed, That a committee of five per-
be appointed by this meeting, to be call-
the Democratic Corresponding Commit-
, for Lasalle county, whose duty it shall
to correspond with our political friends in
b
ditferent counties in this State, and in
diflerent parts of this county, on all mat-
P
s of political interest; to call public mee-
a
gs of the party, whenever such meetings
y be necessary: to arrange and agree in
S
e and place of bolding county, citriet,
I state conventions, whenever they may
necessary, and give notice of the same.
te
Resolved, That in each and every precinct
this county, a committee of three parsons
appointed by this meeting, to be called a
nmittee of vigilance, whose duty it shall ir
to call meetings in their respective pre
t, whenever they may be necessary, to
respond with each other, and the corres-
ding committee of the county upon all
tters of political interest to our Democra-
G
brethren, and agree upon such measures
will best promote their present and future
Ifare.
Resolved, That the democratie citizens of
Salle County will meet in a Convention
delegates to nominate candidates for the
h
ces to be filled in August next, at such
e and place as maybe agreed upon by
county corresponding commuitie in con
ation mil

[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 5]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
Resolved, That it is not consistent with
the rights of citizens, to require their support
of candidates for offices, in whose nomination
they had no voice.
Resolved, That we will not support any
candidate for office who has not been fairly
chosen by a convention in which every niem-
her of the party had an opportunity of being
heard; but will support all nominations so
made.
Resolved, That we have entire conflence
in the patriotic intelligence and democratic
principles of the Hon. Martin Van Buren,
and the Hon. Richard M Johnson, and that
the former is our preference for the Presiden-
cy and the latter for the Vice Presidency.
On motion of L. DeLano, Resolved, that a
committer of three be appointed by the
chair to retire and report five suitable persons
to compose a corresponding committee.—
Thereupon the following gentlemen were
chosen. L. DeLano, Jas. W. Sawtell and
D. F. Hill
The committee of three returned and re-
ported the names'of L. Kimball, J. Dim-
nick, W. Stadden, J. Marlett and C. R
Potter, as snitable persons to compose the
corresponding committee of five, and said
persons were there on severally and unani-
mously chosen said committee.
On motion of A Pitzer, Resolved, That
committee of three be chosen in each pre-
sint, whose duty it shall be to call meetings
o attend a county convention, and transact
such other business, as shall properly come
before the meetings. Whereupon the fol.
owing persons were unanimously chosen,
or said committee.
For Ottowa precint— Win. Stadden, Isaac
Marlett and Ben. Flarris.
For Vermillion-Lawrence Dimmick, R.
1. Molfat and W. Groom.
For Eastern-Stephen Shewood, Geo.
Teasenhill and Clark Hollenback.
For Northern—Joseph Groom, Ebenezar
organ and Lemuel Brown.
For Troy— Warren Root. Thornton and
Janiel Dimmick.
For Eagle-Jacob Recter, John Morgan
nd Robert McDuoun.
For Sandy —Jo-hua Evans, John S. Hust
nd Esqr. Hunt.
For Eighth-W. Goddard, Alex. K.
Owens and Newport.
On motion of Mr. Goddard, Resolved,
hat we have the utmost confidence in the
Sationa! Democratic Convention, to be held
1 Baltimore, in the present mouth. for the
urpose of nominating
candidates to be sup-
orted by the democratic party for Presilent
nd Vice President, and that we will give
ur cordial support to the nomination there
lade.
Ou motion, Resolved, That the proceed-
gs of this meeting, be signed by the Chair-
an and Secretaries, and published in the
hicago Democrat, and that 200 copies be
rocured and distributed through the county,
ad a copy sent to all the Democratic Bilitors
the State, with a request to publish the
nie.
When the meeting adjourned.
L KIMBALL, h'n.
R. D. WOODWORTI
W. HI. GODDARD,
Secretaries.
DEMOCRATIC MEETING.
At a meeting of Democratic Republican
tizens of Morgan county, held at the court
ouse in Jacksonville on Saturday the 4th
stant, pursuant to previous notice, on mo-
on.
Capt. Jous WratT was called to the
chair, and EDwARD
TANKERsLY, Eag
appointed Secretary.
t
S. S. Brooks then presented the follow-
fi
g preamble and resolutions, which, after a
P
1
rief address from S. A DougLass, Esa.,
ere read separately and unanimously adopt
Whereas, it is desirable in the opinion of
P
is meeting, that the priaciples which have
aracterized the administration of Andrew
ackson, our present Chief Magistrate, shall
ntinue to be maintained in the person of his
ti
ccessor; and
Whereas, a National Convention is pro-
wed to be held in Baltimore on the 20th
May next for the purpose of nominating
0
ro candidates, one for President, and one
F
r Vice Presideut of the United States, to
V
supported by the Democratic Republican
rty at the Presidential election in 1835;
Whereas it is believed that such a Con-
ntion, composed of delegates from all the
11
ates, equal in number to their reapective
presentations in Congress, and receiving
eir authority directly from the people in
eir primary assembles, is the beat and sur-
means of harmonizing the conficting in-
rests of our wilely exiended country, and
aciliating the diversity of opinios that mut
T
cessarily exist whete the claims of two or
S
re candidates for the same office, profess-
¿ tle same political sentiments, are present-
for the choice of the people; and
2.
Whereas, The State of Illinois has a deep
d abiding interest in the policy of the
cceeding administration of the General
overbment; therefore
Resolved, That in the opinion of this
eting, the State of Illinois be fully repre-
ated in the propused Convention at Balti-
ore; and that, for the purpose of aproit-
g delegates thereto, a State Convention be
Id at Vandalia on the 27th day or April
e
t to be composed of delegsten frow all
- different coanties in the Slate, equal in
mber to taeir reprecastatico in thi

[Source PDF page 9; newspaper page 1; column 6]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
YoR. IK.-NO. 5.
Resolved, That JACOB WARD. Jow
LATTON, G W. BERRY, WILLIAM WEATH
ERFORD,
EDWARD TANKERSLY, and JoNE
WyatT, be and they are hereby appointe
delegates to represent the county of Morga
in the State Convention, and that they b
and are hereby instructed to select such del-
egates to the National Convention as wil
use all fair and honorably meana to secure
the nomination of the Hon. MARTIN VAN
BUREN as a caniirate for President of the
U.S., and the Hon. RicHARD M. - oHN-
SON for Vice Present.
Resolved, That if it shall be fand in-
practicable to obtain the nomination of both,
or either of the distinguished individuals
named in the toregoing resoltion by the va-
Lional Convention, then that our delegation
n said Convention be requester to use their
influence to secure the nomination of some
ried friend or friends of the Democratic Re-
publican party.
Resolved,
That this meeting have undi-
minished confidence in the ability and integ-
ity of our present Chief Magistrate, and
hat we approve of the patriotic measures of
as administration, and especially of his un-
ompromising upposition to the Bank of the
Jnited States, and of his liberal but inflexi-
le policy towards foreign notions-*asking
othing that is not clearly right, and sub-
pitting to nething that is wrong."
Resolved, That the Hon THoMAs H.
JeNTos, of Missour, is entitled to the gra-
itude of erery true Inend of his country
nd of equal rights, for the untiring perse-
crance and the distinguised ability with
which he has adrocated and defended the
ights of the People, in the Senate of the
nited States, and particularly for his un-
ielding devotion to the interests of the
Vest.
On motion,
Resolved, That a copy of these proceed-
as be forwarded to the President and Vice
resident of the United States, to the Hon.
. M. Jonason, and the Hon. T'Howas H.
SENTON.
Resolved, That the proceedings of thin
meeting be signed by the Chairman and Se-
retary, and that all Editore in this State
iendly to the objects of the meeting, be
equested to publish the same.
JOHN- WI ATT, Chairman.
EDwARD TANKErsLeY, Secretary.
PUBLIC MEETING.
At a meeting of the friends of the Con-
itution and the present Administration, of
e County of Greene and State of Illinons,
: Carroliton, on the 4th day of April, inst.
r the purpose of devising measures and
roducing a Union of action in relation to
ecting a Present and Vice Present of
e United States in the year 1836—When,
said meeting, JOHN ALLEN, Eag.
as called to the Chair, and Gen. Jacos
RY, appointed Secretary, JAMEs TURNEY,
s9: was requested to explain the object of
e meeting, which was promptly performed
a very able, distinet, and decisive manner,
t to be misunderstood-and at th conclu-
on offered the following preamble and re-
lutions.
Whereas, it has heen proposed to hold a
emocratic National Convention in Balti-
ore on the 20th of May next, composed
delegates from all the States in the Union,
r the purpose of nominating candidates for
resident and Vice President of the United
cates, to be supported by the Democratic
arty at the Presidential election in 1836.
And Whereas, it has been deemed expe-
ent and proper, for the purpose of securine
e harmonious and united action of the teal
ends of our precious constitution, and the
rpetuity of our republican institutions, that
• State of Illinois should be fully represen-
d in the propored Convention; Therefore
Resulted, That it is now proper and ex-
dient to appoint three delegates to repre-
nt the county of Greene in a State Con-
ention to be hell at Vandalia on the 27th
pril inst., which said preamble and resolu-
ns were unatinously adopted
On motion of CALVIN TUNNELL, Eag
Ordered, That the President of the meet-
g nominate three persons tu thin meetiog
delegates to represent the Democratic
arty of Greene county in said State Con-
ntion; whereupon
JAMES TERNEY, ERg. CALVIN TUX-
LI., Edw'o M DaRLY, were nominated
d unanimously agreed to.
Ordered, That the proceedings of this
eting be signed by the Chairman and Se-
tary, and be published in the Jacksonyille
ews.
JOHN ALLEN, Chairman.
JAcos Far, Secretary.
Various Sects of the Uniled States -
e number of Catbolica ia the United
ates is computed at 600,000, or → 28
t of our popriation; the Calvinistie Ba
• at 2,743,452; Metbodat Epiece
300,000; Presbyterian, 1,800,000, C
-gational, 1,260,000; Protestaot Epics
, 000,000; Universalists, 600,000 - Tha
ive estinale is not prohably very grash,
mar elicit a better one trow the parties
erested.
Cherokee Indians -A treaty)
ncluded with the Cherokee ridi
the cassion of their al
at of the Min
eat of that ri

[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 1]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
PROCEEDING THB;
DEMOCRATIC STAT ONVENTIO
Monde Apnl 27th, 13359.

The democratic delegates chosen by eeveral
sognties, with many gealemen froin Venous
ayta of the state, convened at the state Thee
in Vandaha, &t @ o'clock, P.M, for the pur-!
of appuilding dplegates to: represent the
wishes of tha democratic party of the sinte of
Viinois in the Baltimore Gonventions
The Convention was called to orwer by Cay.
John Wyatt, of Morgan county, nod on ind-

: The Hon, Paves Canrwiant, of Sitaga
mon, wea chosen President. 3
Col. Aasmu Frack.. of, Perry, and Col.
Wriuan Weatuxnvorn, of Morgan, Vice
Presidents, i
Epwano Taxgensey, Esq. of Morgon, aud
Co). Cuaanns Presrice, of Payetie Sereta-
<The Convention being organized
On mation of Joba Calhoun Ban.
A Committee of five were appainted to pre
wre reaolutions expressive of Tha odjcet and
sonae of this convention, and alsa, le prepire
nn address to the democratic Republican citt-
zene of this state.:
Wheraupan the President announced the 1
lowing committee, viz:;
John Calhoun,
, James Turney,
John Y, Sawyer,
Jacob Ward,
William Linn,
On mation
The Convention sdjourned till to-morrow
morning 10 o'clock.

ae as
uesday, April 23th.

The convention met pureunat to adjourn

ment, S

~Onmotion;

Resolved, That a committee of the three be
Appointed to noniinate to this convention. tive
delegates to represent the democratic read i
ean party of this state, in the National Con-

vention.

Wherenpoo the following gentlemen were
Appainted, vies Messrs, ‘Tunuell, Berry sud
Linp,

iWhich said committee after consulting
nowninated, the following persons, VIZ: +

Joax Catuoun of Sangamon,

Apyse Fuack, of Perry,

Janes Turser, of Green,

+ dous Y. Sawyer, of Fayette,
~ Joux Watt, of Morgan,—which nomina
tions were concurced in,

Mr, Cathoun from the committee on Reso-
Jnutions and address, reported ihe following
whieh afier an able and cloquent epege! from
General Turney, was unanimously adopted,

Whereas the term of office for which our pre-
sent chief magistrate, Jadrene Jackson, wus c-
Jected ia now approaching its terimimalion ene
where ag the interests of the deumweratic party
wealls for a eoncentiation of public opinion i
‘enter to secure the wltiniate success lo thi
gandidate of their chvice for a successor; an
‘whereas the usage and well cstabliched princ’
‘ples of the democratic party have for 2 lon
Lerm of years eettled npon conventions of dete
gates representing the wirhes and interests «
the democracy of every state in tho Umen, 2
the only proper and fiir means of ascertain
and expressing the wishes of the democrat
party in relation to candicutes for preside:
_and vice president of the United Stztes; an

whereas our democratic friends in othe> po

tions of the Union, have reemed it proper t
shold aconventior in the city of Tha
> fimore onthe twentieth doy of May ues
for the purpose of nominating a suitable perso
for the oflice of president oi the U, States t
succeed our present venerable and esteeme
chief magistrate, Andrew Jackson, and hav
invited the democratic party of each state i
theUnion to co-operae with then and ap
point salegetes to this convention; as
whereaa each state is requested to be repre
sented in said convention by.a number equa
ko its senatorial and representative delegatio:
in song qhervline.

ett Resolved by the democratic
the state of Ginsie represented in themes
dion, ‘That, we cordially approve of the meas
ures of the present Administration, and in or
der to secure the continuance of their blessing
‘we will most: cheerlully support. wh teve
candidates may be put in nomination by ou
deienda of the. Baltimore Convention, and be
Jieving that “in union and harmony there 4

” i i
strength.” we will most cheerfully: sacrifice
required, our. own preferences to the interest
‘and desires of the great body of the repub!
part’ throughout the Union as expressed j
the Baltimore convention.
+: Mepgoleed, That the exaaited talents, emi
eran long continued services in the caus
of bts come and of democracy, his publi

unsullied purity of private charac

a pre-eminently entitle MARTIN VA!
BUREN, to the highest confidenze unt hor
ors of his country, and of the democratic pat
ty, aod qualify him for the faithful end hone

able discharge of the duties of the first offic

in the gift of a free people.
Resolved, That the delegntes of the Stat
of Illinois, in the Baltimore convention, be it
strumental, and (bey are horeby instructed b
the unanimous wish of the democratic part
ofthe State, to vote for and yse their beat P
forte to secure the nomination of Ma Va
Bags for the Preside ore vA
ida: até of tho U. Slate

: ‘convention.

oscds ios cet thé eminent military serv
bea Tenderes eountry in the hour of dar

7, and the true, faithful, honest and patrioti

harge of high civil duties in the counci

of hie aur ies in the council
inilittee wet ne rare union of: the higher:
ry and siatesmanlike talents which h

] qualify in an eminent degree, Rick
lohtuop, of Kentucky, tor the firat of

e paca Nation, aad entitle hir

tsymen, and AF the aiptions of hig coun

K MOerAUG party ¢
‘ our delegates in Abe. Baltmure ae
: lean ase to give him their unqualifie
Gaol Bes to the Vice Presiden
That the:detormination of Mug
to run for the Pres
tates, in Gpposition t
other State Sn the Union

Hon Hot to eubmil hi

tensions to the decision of the democratic se
eet io" the’ Baltiniore Conventior
rs in Bo other light by every tru
rat'in the nation, thane violation of th
and es of the nace ty
ith ‘ Fem

[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 2]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
rose by the curtaiment of ita loone, which
oe ye ced of the cominpreial esin-
munity, amd browghet rote upon thousands of
sié citizens} and then jastified ite course Up-
on The groands of the-necesaity of winding up
ita concerns, and bringing its alfnits gra node
ly ter a close, by the time of the expiration of 1
ite charter,—citls for the most sergus appre:
honciona, and the fowl and naqualified con-
Jenuatios of every one who regards the hap-
ness and liberty of this country. | es
" Pesoleed, ‘That. the democracy of Con-
necticut in casting off the shacklek of feder-
alism, juve nobly achieved a victory which
entitles them to. the sincere congratulations
of every democratic friend in the Union.

Resolved, That our democratic fpionds in
all the counties of this State, b spyvested
to hold county. meetings where) tuey have
not already heen held, and concur) im the pro-
ceedings of this convention.. j

Resrlecd, That this conventidn gives its
most unquaitied approval of the koarse pur-
sued by our senators and Representatives in
Congress for ther mandy and efficient sup-
wort of the measures of the Administration.

Oo nection

Resalred, That a copy of these proceed
inasand the address be published in the hli-
nuts Advocate ‘and other democratic Repub-
lican papers in this state, anit that 1000 co-
pies be published ina handbil form for dis-
Unbution. On motion

Resotsed, Thatthe thanks of this conyen-
tion be givin to General James Turney, for’
his able and eloquent address, and also tothe
president.and vice presidents, for the prompt
and impartial, manuer in which they have
presided over its deliberations.

On motion +,

The convention adjourned,
PETER CARTWRIGHT, President,
ABNER FLACK,
WILLIAM WEATHERFORD,

View Pre-idents.

EDWARD TANKERSLY, 2
COARLES PRENTICE, — §

(row the Washington Globe. ]
DESTROYING THE LANDMARKS
OR PARTY.

The partisans of Judge White of ‘Ten-

‘neiee, now opeuly proclaim ia their public
prints, the desigo of building up w party for
him hy “destroying lhe landmarks of party.”

This artifice has heen so frequently attampt-
ed, and in vain, by these sceking to divide
and destroy the republican party in this

leountry, that we liad supposed the design
rwoull not have been caotessed on the part
jof those supporting the interest. of aroan
who up to the oge of sizty at least has made
it his boast to sunpurt his party firmly, as

Ltheanly means of nuintaining his principles,

But now he seeks office at the hands ef the

‘} opposition, and like all new solicitors for the

‘\favorof Federalism, becomes a no parts

liman. Wis flag ia perleelly White—a carte

"| blunch, tendered to the ancient enemies ¢

the enuse he has heretofore supported, to be
filed up by them, ifthey choose to acceptit
j| ‘That the demueracy of the Union mas

- see that we do not mistake the terms upot

Ww ich Judge White tenders himself, throug!

‘(the public meetings in bis own State, we

give the resulutions passed at Pulaski, (Ten:

‘i nessee) on the 7th of March—which kave

jj been published by the prints supporting
Judge White, at his head quarters in Ten-

i hessee, and which. appeared. simultaneously
i vesterday in the Sun and Appeal, the twe
White journals lately potten up in this city.
They areas follows:
“Resolved, That we helievo the elevation o!
; Jadgs White to the Pi foney, would have a

hap tondencu in DESTROYING THE LAND.
MARKS OF PARTY, and restoring harmony
to the Government.

“Resolved, That ‘19 attain the enda we ain
at,’ the good of our country, Wwe recommend te
the citizens of our whole country, whethe
PWHIGS, NATIONALS, NULLIFIERS, oa

REPUBLICANS, to UNITE THEIR SUP

FRAGES upon Neon L. Warts, of ‘Tennes
sce.

i Now, what are the “/and marks of party’

which itis proposed to break down w the

i election of Judge White? Are they not the

principles which distinguish the parties ir
this country? And in calling the ‘“WHIC $?

VY NATIONALS” and “NULLIMIERS?

(that: embittered coalition of all’ vindictive
persecotions of the President and his princi
ples) to support Judge Winte with a pledg

{on his part to destroy the land marks o

., party,” do not bis friends sce that he propo

ses to surrender the principles of the Repub
+( lican party to which be has hitherto adhered
The Whigs or Federal party, rallied Nort!

*; and South, under the names of maleuntent

and nullifiers, do not propose to surrende
their principles. On the contrary they neve
pushed them loa greater extreme. At thi

,| moment they. are battling with unparalled vi

, | BF, especially in the South, to destroy th

great land mark of representative democra
cy, the right of instruction—ant they open

{ly sally under the White banner, in the ex

‘Lecution of this purpose, The party of Vir

‘{ginta who violated. the right of instruction

[in tie election of Mr. Leigh last winter

have (no doubt at the instarce of Mr Leis!
himseif,) taken down his Presidential ft

} and run up thatof Judge White, to float dur

ing the Apn! elections. Mr. Mangum, wh

Topealy scouted the instructions. of his con

{stituents on the Moor of the Senate last: win:

{ter, has gone home “to destroy the lane
snarky of party” in the name of Judge

{White Ibis the same case with Moore

Black, Poindexter, Cage—in a word, eve)

Representative from the South, who violates

the will of bis constituents by his course it

‘| Congress. They all calculate on a suppns

{ed sectional prejudice for Judge White in the
Sovth;.and.the popu ity he has abtaines

as the old friend of General Jackson, t

draw off a force fram the Republican part)

Fespective States, sufficient, whe

Seer’s.


[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 3]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
ily tn the face of the world, proposes
hrough lis friends: at public smcetings © \o
leatray the land marks of party” {2 We
rust thal republicans every. where will con-
ider it as dishonest to destroy the landmarks
party, far selfish enda, as any other land
narke—aad more so, inasmuch an principle:
hould ever be held dearer aud more sacred
han property.

We find the following correspondence in
he New York Evening Post. The reply
the President isin keeping with a lite de-
voted ta the true interests and just rights 0:
he great body of the people.

Anprew Jackson, President of the U, S.

Sir—Ata period when the violence of
palitical phrenzy is giving place to the dic-
ates cf dispassionate and impartial investiga~
ion and the convietions of saber judgment;
sta time when the north and toe south, the
west and the “east,” are uniting in support
of an administration that has done more than
any ollier to restore the goveroment to its
origina! simplicity and revablican principles,
and to dignify and adore its relations with
foreian nations; your democratic fellow citi-
zeng of the eleventh ward in the city of New
York have deemed the accompanying: speci:
men of bref. the producten of their native
state, no ucfit eniblem and. representative of
their feelings and sentinents, ‘The subject
herewith presented and which they bez you
to aecept, was taken from one of the firest
and largest bullocks ever raised in the * Bat
pine Stats,” sod ivhile it has combined
in its production a large share of the tivo
leading interests of the country, that of the
agriculturist and mechanic, (the bone and
muscle?) it is not wholly divested of the fore
of the merchant,:

With sentiments of respect, we are, SIF,
your fellow citizens,;;

GEORGE PASSENGER,
WAL PL VARIAN,

In behalf of the democratic electors of the

Elesenth ward, New-York,
Washington, April 1th, 1835,

Gentlemea—P have ‘received your fine

present of beef, for which | thank yous anc
let ine assure you that the homely. offerings
which unpretending citizens have presented
giving proof of the warn and alf-ctionat
feelings they cherish for me personally, have
afforded me greater pleasure than the expen
sive and osteatatious displays with which nis
services haye Leen so liberally signalizec by
public munificence,

It bas been the sim of my hfe to secur
the happiness, and thus to gain the affections
of the cotlagers of zig euuniry. To the en
L have tuted, that labor might be safe in it
j sarpings—-a thing impossible when the gy
ernment is not umler the control of working
nen. Our happy condition ia, at this mo
ment, an example of the blessings which on
ly belong to that country where the will o
the people is law; where every miustrious
honest man may eoinmand a superiluty
ithase necessanes of life of which you have
presented me a most substantial example.

Lam, gentlemen, sour most obt, serv’t.

ANDREW JACKSON,

Messrs, George Passenger, Wn. P
Varian, in behalf of the democratic elector
of the 11th ward, New-York.

[From the Giohe.]
Post Orrice Departurst, May 4, 1835

Notice to Alail Contractors, and other
who are or may le creditors of the Pos
Office Department.

The practice. of accepting the drafts
berate In the employment of the Past Ore

Department, for services thereafter to b
rendered, ‘as also for moneys duc, will-b
discontinued. No dimfts drawn. after pro
tulgation of this notice, will be accepted o
poid, unless drawn’ in pursuance of som
speeaal arrangement)

Itis intended to par promptly, at the en
of the present and ‘each succeeding quarter
ail just claims accruing against the Depart
ment, within’ such quarter, ia such manne
zs will be hereafter made known.

As payments for services rendered will b
promptly made, the perfurmance of the set
vices contracted for, will be rigidly exacted

Fines will not be imposed without full in
quiry and sufficient causes but when imposed
{they will not he remitted.

Arrearages of former quarters will be pai
as fast a8 the Department acquires th
means.

No retrospective allowance will be mad
for any regular service hereafter render
such as carrying the wails in another mat
her or more speedily, or more frequently
than is stipulated for in the contracts. Im
provements will be paid for only when the
shall have been previously approved and or
dered by the Department, and the rate ¢
allowance fixed according to law.
Amos Kexpaun.

Abrointugnts by THE Presipext —
Winuas T. Barry to be Envoy [xtra
ordinary aod Minister Plenipotentiary t
Spain.

AMos Kenpaty to be Postmaster Gen
eral.

J.C. Pickert to be Fourth Auditor ¢
the Treasury Department.

MicutaeL Manon to be Consul at Si
Jago de Cuba. f

accounts from the Globe tu-day, show th
election of Jifteen: repubhcan frends of th
administration to the next congress, and ai
opposition, including “Whigs’® ‘of all th
modern hues and descriptions. ‘The ‘resy
in the state lepislature is not less decisive
the fate of the combined adversaries of: th
democracy. ‘The friends of the administra
tion area decided «majority of both huuses
The Ancient, Dominion is herself again—
lyretriumphantly,


[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 4]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
“CHICAGO DEMOCRA

ner nnn RE A A
VOICE OF THE DEMOCRACY.

Wo publish on our Brst page the procecdings
of a few of a serics of Democratic meetings
which have been held in this State, The meet-
ing in this town was as large and respectable 2
meeting as we have evef seen here upon any
occasion. Never wana meeting in any place
conducted with better order or more good feel
ing and unanimity of sentiment. Indeed bul
one sentiment pervades the Demo ‘racy of this
section, a8 to the necessily of an immediate anc
thoreugh organization. Tha penpte feel that they
have been Aumbugyed long enough by a ret o
neaddimg weathercock politicians, who have ne
principles but ofice—ofice—ofice! and who are
continually crying out against conyentions~
party—the landmarks of party, Ke. &e., for ne
other earthly ronsong,--than that when the par
ty lines are drawn, and men are placed distinet
ty upon one sidsof the fnce or the ather—the;
will have less facilities for changing from on
side tu the other, as iany eppear best caleula
‘ted to gratify their longings for office--and tha
when the peuple meet frequently in conventions
it willbe nore dificult fora few leading men t
effect the election of a particular frlend—or one
who, when in office, in place of representin,
and se-ving tie people, will feel Lonnd to repre
entthem. ‘These are the great. reasons ¥.5.
“inany influential men are opposed so much t
‘vonventions. ‘The man nominated in a conven
tien by the people, is, literally, the people's ea:
i didatemthey of course will sclect a-man wh
swith advocate thelr opinions and promote thei
linterdsis, The mon brought ous oy Ainiseg/, 0
la little knot of aristocrats here ur there inn dis
trie is his or their candidate—and of course

toadvecate the.r opinions and promote their ir
ltercets. Inthe faticr cavo most frequently, ¢
pinions and principles are matters of Jitue i
portanee in comparison with interest, An
Jhenee under such a state of things we not ut
frequently sen the people nearly all on one sid
in political principles, and those who hold otiie
nearly allan the other,
We shall resume the subject uf convention
and nominations by the scopls hereafter.

CHICAGO,
* We have not room nor time to. say so mue
ag we we woull aboutewr town. Every thin
jabout us looks flourishing and prosperous-
lwhichever way we turn our eyes they encour
ler new buildings and new business. AN givis
evidence ofan sccesvion of population aad e1
erpriso hitherto cuknown even here. Buty
leatninenced thin article solely for the purpose
calling tie public mind to things whieh requi
immediate attention, First, the gutters oug!
to be drained, and the sunken spots in the v
cant lots ail about the buildisgs of this tow
jstiould be either filled up or drained immediat
ly, ‘There is nothing more importont to the {
i ture proaperily of Uhis town than its charact
i fo Aealth, and we venture to say that there
Nota considerable town on the Atlantic whi
would pot be visited witha pestilence with h
the predisposing causes which exist hore at th
moment, and all of which right be removed
an expense of a few hundreds of dollars, Sh:
it be done. Second, we wish to inquire whet
er itis not Ume something waa done to proty
the town from the ravages of fire.. So far as y
are advised thero is not even a fre bucket
Chicago.

STATE BANK OF ILLINOIS.

) Weunderstand that abont eight millions f
hunired thousand dutlars have been subecribe
for stock in the Bank; about $350,000 of whi
Were subserihed in tis place. ‘The ambunt a
thorized as the capital of the Bank, is $1,404
000, and by the provisions of the act the exce

is to ba deducted, fiest irom the subscription
suchas are not residenta of Me State, ands
}}cond from corporations. Tt is then to be tak
} in proportion froin subscriptions which exee
$1000, and in case an excess atill remaing, it
tobe taken trom all equally, until the subscri
tions are reduced to the given amount, 1,40!
O00 With the design of ovaling the provision
the law, that the subscriptions of non-residen
shall be first deducted, capitalists from oth
Statew subscribed fur large amounts of the Sta
{in the names of citizens, subscribing in oa
Wgese $1000. The question then arises wh
course will the commissioners pursue in rega
€o these subscriptions?” We have no hesitati
in deciding what course they ought to pursu
They ought to treat all such subscriptions po
risely ax if they were in the name of tho re
subseriburs. ‘The law aveuree a certain prefe
ence to the citizens of the State, and of tl
/| privilege the commissioners should not. alle
them to bedeprived by the trickery of forei;
capitalists. The fact of such subseriptions havi
been made is well known to the commissionet
VW rensains to he acen whether they will count
nance thie palpable attempt to evade the lawae
the State. and advance the interests of fori
eapitalists, at the sacrifice of the rights of 0

own cilizens,
eects

Wo perevive in the ligt of titles of laws pa
aed by the last Legislature, one changing
powers of the corporation of Chicago. | It
underatoad, from those who know more of the
things than we do, that we, the people, are.
Approve or reject this charter sometime in Jus
next, and yet eo far aa we aro advised, thero
Not acopy of this law nearer the town of Chic
go, than the office of Mr. Sccrctary Prev.
Vandalia; nor any ‘likelihood that it. willl
nearer until we are called upon to approve.
disapprove of its provisions, It is time this #0
of business was done up in a liste differc:
fashion at the Seeretary'x office. Almost if n
svery other State ip the Union pays for the pu
lication of its Inwa, Michigan pays twen
fio dollars to each of the publishers in tho ‘Te
Titory, and to nejor two.in thia State, fi
blication of its laws of each session, at
i ished from the office of the Seer


[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 5]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
other public olicer necuss copy of the law un-
der which he is to act, he must expend some four
or five dollars in postage, and some eight or ten
to pay the Secrotary for copying-more prola-
bly that he will ever receive as the emolments
of his office.
We have heard of several instances of indi.
viduals having written the Secretary of this
Stnte for information contained in the office,
when no reply has been deigned to their inquiries.
Is this offieer t he servant of the people, or are
the people the servants of the Secretary! We
ask for information!
A friend has just informed us, that our town
Election under the pew law, takes place the fret
Monday in June, or next Monday week!
THE CANAL.
We publish on our last page the canal bill
passed ot the fast session of the Legislature of
this State. It is understood here that there has
Teen a total failure to obtain the requisite find
to commence the work under this Bill, and that
a special session of the Legislature will be cali
ed to act upon this question and the apportion-
ment. The subject of the canal is one of gen
eral interest. Equally so lo every membero
this communty, and we may almost say foeve
ry citizer of the State of Illinois as to us: ou
colans will be always open to judicious arti
cles relative to thiz interest. And we invite the
co-operation of our friends and fellow citizeas
generally, in presenting it in its proper light be
fore the citizens of She State. We believe tha
if the canal is pot made, and that speediiy, i
will be the fault of the people here. It is a wor
of such olivious necessity and utility, that t
ensureita construction, it is only necessary t
throw intormation apon the subject beforo th
people.
RECENT ELECTIONS.
The recent clectione in various parts of th
country, show as great accession of strength t
the Democratic party. Connecticut has electe
a Democratic Governor—a majority of the Stat
Legislature, and her entire delegation in Con
gress are of the same stamp. Rhode-leland ha
also come round to the support of correet prin
ciples. The resuit of the eleetions in Virgini
has been such as to induce even the oppositio
to give up their hopes of the Old Dominion. 1
every quarter we sen the mest cheering indica
tions that the people are awake to their inter
ests, and to the necessity of united and energet
ic action—and that the plans of the oppositio
to break down our principles by using men wh
have heretofore stood well with the party, ar
understood and will be delented.
MICHIGAN AND OHIO.
The dilicultien between our neighbors Ohi
and Michigan, appear tobe for the present easy
We have scan with regret the belligerent cha:
acter of some of the proceedings on both side
Yet on the whole, Governor Mason of Mich
gan, has manifested a prudence and moderatio
highly commendable.
This calling out the in
litia and talking about bayonets and blood, woul
be perfectly ridieulous and fareical if it we
less serious: for Ohie might have sacrifieed 6r
h
half of her million of freemen. and Michiga
IF
teen exterminated, and yet the question of rig
and of boundary have remained equally unsc
tied as before.
We trust that a different tone,
feeling may prevail, and that if Ohio and Mich
san cannot agree, they may submit their dil
:t
culties to the peaccable settlement of those i
e
whom they have mutual confidence.
FOREIGN NEWS.
During the suspension of our paper, there hit
been many important changes in the affairs
foreign nations. Il is not perhaps necessar
h
that we should attempt to give even an abstra
of these matters. A new tory Ministry wi
torised in England, at the head of which wel
Sir Robert Peel and the Duke of Weilington.-
By the last arrivale at New York, we learn thi
the momliers of this tory Ministry after repea
ed defeats in the House of Commons, had
d
length resigned their places.
The French Chamber are discussing a bill f
the payment of the indemnity stipulated in the
treaty with our Government, and it appea
,*
likely to pass.
Prince Augustus of Portugal consort of tl
young Queen, died suddenly on the 28th Marci
k
STATE CONVENTION.
We copy from the last Vandalia Advocate il
proceedings of the Democratic State Conventio
We regret that we cannot make room for ti
address of the convention to the people.
shall appear in our next.
We have received a copy of a pamphlet cor
taining a letter from the Ilos. Frascis O..
SuiTe, member of Congresa, from Cumberlan
W
District, in Maine, written in answer to inqui
ies from one of his constituents, an to Majr
Barry's administration, and the present cond
Lion of the Post Office Department. The lette
in question contains a mass of information an
interesting detail as to the management of thi
department, and givea a better idea tlian w
have elsewhere seen of the immense labor an
responsibility resting upon those who conduc
ila exterisive operations. We shall avail ou
selves of an early opportunity to lay before ou
e
readers such extracts from this paraphilet as ou
limits will permit.
0
Navigation is at length open between Buts!
and Detroit. The first boat trom the former a:
rived at the laiter place Sunday 10th inst, un
we learn from stage passengers fhat suite a flee
t
of Buffalo vonsela left the latter place tor Chi
cugo on the 1lth.
Wo have received the first three numbers o
the Winois Bounty Lund Register, publislied •
t
Quiney. It in understood that Jebok Yound i
the aditor of the Kegister. Will be informs
whether he inteads to support the nomination
•
of the National Convention. Or in other warde
whether he is tor or againat the denocratie purty
We havo to acknowledgo the receipt, durin
the suspension of our paper, of a curenlar ad
dremed by our representative in congrees, Hou
Wer L, Met, to his constituente Wasballe

[Source PDF page 10; newspaper page 2; column 6]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
A new: Post nice ht keen gee
aoe 08 been iis
millionville, 1D Lasalle count “bahay We
Appointed post master, 2 SM IW, y,
Also, » new
ase Prat
Milwatkee, MT, wie

‘ A bet of one thous
Sime pending, thay
who would walk

Gollan hy, tes

Bs American ee:

Fe §

Stevens of New-York. ae! 5 ba,.

bet, offired the Amount 5

Was Suleequently added 1,

faker. The ten iniles

the Cnisn cony,

Srasnann, in

onds, {

i UP PAS bayer
We publish, for the inten To,
ders, the following Circular eat
asaetcne Circular letter ¢.
Commissioner of the Geno: } MMe ty
Which it will be seen, that Petia
emption tights ore permittet and eee
wil he issued in the numnes of the nat Peng
This is ah impertant een fem
emption Claimants a well we WON Py
as, urider the Instructing teak ‘
) Pre-emptions were fered slmaer
{the elaimsnts, unless ther err
then for their oy Pe Wiehed

* Sn aye

: TUS emaialog e

peoguized until ator Potente bad Bat be
Gpnenan

ad isered,

ASD OG
ere ureh 4, 1955 Bt
SES TEOM ES: ery

The Tih argele at
ab arc watron ¥

Leiiiee Mate the cireidar etter fre

this office, dated 22) Jule 1633 MEP INS

‘bined. Hs
date, a cony of which is mbiioeh of
ments of pre-enption rights arme: Agis
net of BN Inne, 1944 ilphe
recognized,
ingly, to asshrs
the testimony
that the pres
aw t

A View Co ibsupe yy
feution of ¢

(ore)
EPOTEILY meee seer he hpre Hy te
Paid Bet Ver F 6th mene gf

ame all my (OF O

deniand, te a tric

(OL DE} 00 meme, te pet [he
Net, sworemnomie, GON AL OU! Be ths meal
Noy aee, 16 tow

Bltuate in the dist

BE eee

issue tu pal

atiested by two witn
either betora a Ne
Ponce, aud atta
there must be a certtic
{the Clerk of the proper cousty car. ce
y {his eee! of oficn,
pf Tn referring dispute: er reje
eaves for the opini
you will inee y
rasan for such
which you rosy estertais
milled, togeth hall the ink
y sexeion reepecting Uien.
fpeetiully, your ob’t. servi.:
ELUATPH AIMS
The Rigister of the Land Ofte,
and Reeviver of Puble toneyt.
Tarascay Devawougot, Manca de
i Syare-According te the opin oft
temey General, the revival of tit xt ©
'Vaprh May, Isai, by thet of the ith he #
Lis to be conshlered as embrzeing
nbs engratted thereon, by the Hyp
fact ofthe 234 Jangary, 1832, Le,
{tally your olsen
[Signed] LEVEAWOORE
Seeretaty of te Tes
Commissioner of the Genets! Lenh
APPGINTHESTS i
By the President by asa with the @
and consent of the Serie
George Barquer, to be Regatet ©
Lond Office at Springfield, in place?”
Le May, resignen-;
: S. H. Thompson, te be Regstet *
Land Offve at Edwartsrille @ F
Win. P. McKee, whose term of #1
expired:
‘|S. Alexander, to be Register
*] Office at Quincy, his Brat term
Ting expired. ‘
Carlin, to be Reeewer of Font a
fois first term of oflce

ghee

eys at Quincy,
expired,:
ee Evans, of Morgan ans
Register of the new Laat Offke
James W.!
Public Moneys of on ae
James Whatock, of Vanaais
: Ase
gister of the Lan? Ofhice phnerett oh
Ho Edmund D. ‘Tayler of lpi sa
1 Receiver ot Public Money Une
1 Wilhaa Linn, to be Be:
1} Moneys at Vandala-—his A
having expired. aa?
Satouel McRoberts, La ob
Moneys at Daavilie, his first
having expired:
aarpS
APPOINTMENTS
Senate ®
ssr0NEBE

By the Governor und

Canat Cos
Edward Coles, Pressients fa
Win. B. Archer, Ash8
Joe! Manung,
Gurdon § Hubbard,
1 Wr. Lino, Treasure’

eet

i he Joint
Elections by the ee

Stephen T- Logaa, 4. #

dicial Cireutt: ue
"Sidney Biees? Jeet a io, 0

A, S. Grant, d }
of Henry Baidy,
(Justin Holes

Thomas F

[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 1]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
te le Judeal Circuit,
Juse Grant, States Attorney for the 6tl
Tobie here insed more than one
fanaticism and rashness of
designing mien,
parinte abolitionists"
of slavery: bu
blowing statement exposes,
*The Rer: Wilbur Fisk, the accomplish
Methodist college, a
letors, Can. some tine since delivered
a digent address on the subject of Tem-
This address was puttished, and
relatite took a ropy,
altered the
wed temperance
at of is phraeology so as to make the au-
it occurred, lo
for speak on a subject totally different from
loor, and express sentiments directly
paste to those he entertains.
This forged
latin was immediately
published, and
o orcating, in onlei
to impress the
tin, osket the notion that the distinguished
Setalaa in favor of inmediate
Pressed af their University is an adrocate
of the pries of Tagan and Garrson.-
Ther dil persist in circulating thi
docu
a de penine production of President Fists,
castatading the circumstance that the
rend gentleman has expressly dischsimed
3 shuship m a letter formally written fo
% Zion's Herald"
_ Mr. William
Wakeman, of
defra of Wakeman & Shock, of Trods,
ROstERY
was rabbed one
nees on his passage to N.
York,
, of his
The robbery os efficied wille Mr. W
ocket bok, containing
$3,250 in bills.-
the pock
* 75507
tat vilage has invented an artifient mar
Se Sracuse Standard says that a perso
bolün, made entirely of American cement,
wich wil, after a short time, acquire the
Cardess of a sell rock.
bodies shorned in such coffins would suffer
it is believed tha
ely decomposition. Ide.
A giri dared Mary Elwood cansed her
fat Chedona by a too great use of
pia, barng taken it belore eating, an
ale baguel, it overcame ber and put =
She was an invete.
note chesse: of the drug
NORTEEN BASE oF KeNTUCEY.-
On Moelay and Tueslay of last week, ther
tal been subscribed at Marsville,
599
i thousad fire huared dollars
1h Pass, at 12 ocloex on Tueslay last
nta place on Saturdas
1253 share
ere token; Monday 401; Tuesday at
1 Geoglen on Monday evening last
023 tate bad been taken
1 Omegion on Monar and Tuesda
far ark, 0000 shares were taken. Fror
suppose that in
sadof one milion of stock, heing take
a be state, the amoant token will not fo
such bort of fire millions
rhaps greati
stel that sum.— [Lex Ky Ohserter
CHICoTuS BASS —The ChilicotheA.
Asser states that there had been for seve
you previous to the date of the paragrag
ana upon the bank uf that
place, but 1t
ase is not assigned.
The liabilities of it
dash are
anounced by then easter
recanting to $3S9,166, and the essets
The whale
amount of spec
as land at the
time of making the anne
She demand for coin in the present instanc
PERRY'S FLEET
When the peace of 1515 bad render
te pral armament on Lake Erie usele
Teral of the vessels owned by the gove
sent sere sunk for their preservation,
Praque ble Bay, and have laid thus, whe
Wane deplas of tracint are moved
I serly twenty gears, until the enter
sag policy of peace has made it an object
cossert them to the purposes
The Quren Charlatter, one of the prizes,
of commer
Brady been raised, and is to be square
pd fir the Chicago trade
raised immediat
te carerted into a stramboat.
are sold, and in the
let calculated to
Option of mans.
Sar when frat built.
that the batara da
The parsengera on these relics of a he
ther he gone glory
senuch are soon to visit the scene
abine reflecions, when passing.
Sizers, and "Put-s Bas;"
too long in anticipatin, would merely
tat a pleasure party couid ont better
30011739
bate the
"tenth of September, than 1
serses wio fell in that cunfict.
• siero sad instructive
a the graves of
It wou
in heart alone could undertake
pilgrimage,
spirit of triumph ever fallen foes
so to drop a tear for be ate of hel
ts no more but in the
pirit of
shere the victors and the
lovingly in their mutual embrace.—
Sio Repablican
vroquisbed
Cal R. M. Tobron has addressed
consuluents, stating his deter

[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 2]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
sys, will complete the period of thirty years
of service asa Representative in Congress _
from the same district.

Forcrry.—On Saturday, the 18th inst.)
anole of $1609, purporting to be drawn
by Richard V. Smith and endorsed by Joha
Hopkins, and Nathaniel Berry, was present-
ed for discount at the Farmers and Manu-
ficturer's Bank in this village. The well
know reputation of Messrs. Hopkins &
Berry, who are men. of undoubted wealth
and respectalnhity, induced the cashier to
Nscount the nute without hesitation and the
forger escaped with the spoils.

A few days afier, Mr. Berry called ot the
Bank, when a conversation, intraduced by
the cashier, relative to the $1600 note, led
toa discovery of the forgery

The officers of the bank commenced an
immediate pursuit. of the villain, who was
finally arrested at Newburgh, were he just
offered, at one of the bank: another note like
that discounted at Poughkeepsie A deserip-
tion of the roaue, which had been left at the
Newbutgh bank led to his detection. Ups
wards of $1400 of the money has been re-
covered.—[ Poughkeepsie Journal.

COLLEGE FOR LADIES.

The Kentucky Legislature, has confered
upon Messrs. Van Doren’s Institute for
Young Ladies, in Lexington, the chartered
tights and standing of a College, bv the
name of Van Doren’s College for Young
Ladies. By the power granted lo the Board
of Trustees and the Faculty of the College,
we understand from the Daily Report, that)
a Diaploma and the honorary degrve of M.
P. L. (Mistress of Polite Literature) will
be conferred upon those young ladies who
complete the prescribed: course of studies 5
an that the same honor may. be conferred u-
pon other distinguished ladies in our country;
and also that the honorary degree of M. M
(Mistress of Music) and M1. (.ilistress
of Instruction) may be conferred by this
College, upon suitable candidates?

New 1 ~The Pittsbargh
Gazette speaks of the arrival at that place of
tivo large flat hoats or arks, from Jamestown,
Chautauque county, New York, one laden
with patent) window sashes, the other with
patent wooden buckets. “The window sash,
itseems, did not sell readily at first, but now
soles are prompt. ‘Two thousand dozen of
these sashes were bought by a merchant of
Galena, Hlinois.

A ramor is going thezrounds of the Whie
papers, that Mr. Clay has retired from the
Presidential field. It would be more cor-
rect however, to say, that he had been tri-
ren from it by the people.

The estate of the late Mr. Samuel Slater,
e died recently at his residence in Web-
ster, Mass., is estimated at about Tio mil-
Bots of dollars?
Z3fey,
On Satarday, April 4, at Ottawa, TM. Saral

MLK. daughter of Maj. JB Campbell of tha
ace, aged 2 vere and 4 months,

Sloop Westward ilo, Banks. Millwalkee.
Schr, White Pyoon, Neel, Grand river
“ lose Sath, Dran, Shipsegsm.
La Grange, Chauehota, st Josrph

“a dease Sinith, Danks, Shipwagas
’ 8. B. ewberry Fort, wy Bt. Sie
. Sehr La Grange, Chanclvia, do.
« Philbpy Howe, daz
, # Sutiet, hheoka, fda,
; o Pigron, Noel, Grand rieee

sh. Newbercy Part. © 2. Feseph,
Y} May t. sche Commodore, Cul DETROIT.
aon Newkerry Port, t 168 ph,
Sehy While Pigesn, Nock, Grand river.
Sloop Westward Ho, Ranks, Millwalkee.
Brig. john Kintie, Goover, Detroit
’ Schr, Sean, ~ on, Cote anat,
& Hellen, Chase,

t i: Mareaco, Dingley, Detroit,
Napoleon, at 4, Cleavdand
a. White Pisean, Nueb, st. rn
% - Hrilen, Chace, 4
LFkanainps et tie iarcnncenniee a rer nem
i]. Wanted munediateiy.
at N apprentice at this office to the printin

tuincas. A good opportunity is offeres
ai by an immediate application.
e May 20th, 163

BT OTECE. —The co-partnesship heretofo:

existing between D, O. Robinson and

A Neff, is thie day dinsolved by inutual consen

all persons haying dealings with said firms, w

please to call on D. O, Robinson for setilomen

ty b. 0, ROBINSON,
R. A. NEFF.

rd

: HET FISH, prit
as tide, forsalyby Jones, King oy co,
May 18, "5. 2

e.| Valuable Farms vor Sale.
as NUMBER of valuable improved Farm
y- | situate along the line of the Minois a!
t. | Michiyan canal, some of the best locations
* | the country. Cc, C. VAN HORN.


Ys Hickory Creek, May 18, 1235. OEE

10) ON, B.C. C.V. HL will be in Chicago fr
48 ithe 95th until after the land sale,

4

iain titi i vera tment

0 LEP—! Store, |} en
Dwelling and a large ho
suitable fora Boarding House. }
i C. I CHAPMAN

i hi, pectic aes connexion in. busir
UND between the subsssiber and Win. H. Bro
not was claved the Ist of January last. ‘The ¢
nt, Lupou the debts duc the firm o Russoll $ Bro
Jae land ales the subseriber, will bo received by
, 4, jand good andsufficient discharges given there
a Pr. t. RUssELt
the) Chisago, May 49, 1535.-—3w5,
1 he oe ain aenennesioaeentietahareemmee rR en POO eAen
hich 1. CURTISS,
not; Attoraey and Counsellor at Law, @
SOLICITOR IN CHANCERY,
aa CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
sree, Or Fin South Water-stzeet, first
ave, § west of Messrs. Joxus, Kine & Co,
+) May 16, 1835.5

leep | stairs
Lots for Saic.

wha

But-

[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 3]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
4M. Randoiph-street, nearly oppo-
nite the pubis square. Enquiry at
this office.

Pecket Rook Found,
POCKET BOOK is left at this office which
was found by an Indian in Chicago during
he payment last fall, containing some money.
vhich the owner, (F. Caldwell it is supposed)
an hee by paying a Pevnanara loo to the Indi-
in, arel for publishing this riotiee, by applyin
this office. May 19, 1835.—5 Leyes
For Sale,
FARM containing about 125
£ acres, situate.on the river Des
Plains, 12 mifea west of Chicago.
vhs farm is beautifully situate with
: the rallowing iuprovements, with
ecnntie comfortable Log House and Bara:
{0 acres under fence, 20 ploughed, a youtig nur
ery of 2acres, consisting of apple, cherry, pears
and quince. Apply to 4 "

J. BATES, jr. Auc’r.


The subscriber is prepared to dispose of any
property, by AUCTION, or on cuassasiox, that
ay be offered, at the old stand.

J. BAT

cs Mail Sta

FROM GALENA TO CHICAGO,
i Four Horse Post Couches, via, Dixon. (Dix-
on’s Ferry,) twice a week, will leave Ga-
lena, every Sunday and Wednesday, ats} o'clock
DP, M., and leave Chicago, every Saturday and
tena,

PATTERSON, GARDNER & MATHER,
IMPORT AND SELL
China, Glass, Earthern Ware and
Hooking Glasses,

T the lowest New-York prices, (adding on:
£ ly the lowest rate of varriage,)

Al the sign of the Large / itcher,

No, 112, Jevrensox Avesug, Detroit.

The above firm being a branch of an exten.
sive houve at Buitilo, N.-¥. Gvell known thro’
tne wostern couniry,) under the Grim of Gard:
net & Patterson, are determined to. sell every
arhiele in their line, as lore and on na accom:
dating tering as any house in the United States.

The subscribers, trom their acquaintance witl
she varions Potteries in England, have been a
bie (by perso nlien) to make such selec
tions as will warrantthatn in asserting that thei
ware, jn point of quality ant elegance, ia no
inferier lo any iroperted,

Patterson, Gardner § Mailer.

; Looking Glasses,
P., GoM. have connected with (heir estab
ishment an extansive Looking Glass Factory
which enables them to sell thatarticle lowe
than the same ariiclo can be bought in New
York city. ‘The subseribors will keep constant
ly on hand a Acary stack of Crisa, Grass, Ean
tHe W gre aed Lovee Grasses, and on th
opening oP navigation, will ba receiving, direc
fron Liverpool, heavy quantities of ware, of th
latest stylw and patterns, which merchants,
their way to New-York, and othess, aro invite
tocalland cxamine—at No. 112, Sign of ti
Large Piteher, Detroit.

Swe Pattergon, Gardner & Mather.
CROMELIEN, BROTHERS & CO,
Foreign Wise and LiquorjEstablishment
No. 563 Pearl-Rirect, Now-York,
yy it open a Branch of their House in thi

city, at 127 Moi Street, (near the Mat
sion House,) op the 25th inst for the peray
aipnt business of supplying tats place and th
whole Western Country with superior and ger
ning

Wines and Liquors.

They are desirous to have the publick acquai
ted, that from their long experience in the bus
neas, and of Ueir many We tern Custome
wie have been supplied for the past 2 years, 4
well as fromthe continued patronage they r
ceive, they must give entire salixfaction, at
feel confident that in opening a branch here,
troy have, will much daciiitate Merchants in tl
despatch of their Orders, which otherwine wou
have to be sent to New-York. [a doing the
hove, and by appealing to the publick, we a
nasured that this will mect the vjews of the man

All Orders and Letuers, rayt-rarm, will
punctually attended to, directed to this place

New-York, 2
» Buffalo, Aprit 16th, 1835

Qn

A Steam Engine
HE. subseriber offers for stloa Stam E
AY wine of sufliciont power th run three jy
of mill stones, two of whieh why be 4 feet
weas, and one of a smatier size.

This Engine was built under The inspection
the owner, who is o practical nnginees, and ¢
therefore warrant the anne to be’of the bestir
and sufficient power for the above purpuses
for a saw mil, with a tath machite and eri
stone attached to it. ‘Phe subscriber woald s
half of the engine for cash, to qh who war
establish a geist mill in the flourishing village
Lakeport, m Laport county, Jal where he
now putting up another eng ne fora yaw im
or he will soll the whole engine dn the moat
yorable terms, and receive several pairs of ge
oxen, and one or two substantial way gona,
part payment, "The engine willarrive at F
Wayne, on the first rise of the Si. Mary's ris
and will be leftin charge of Col, Srescen,
Fort Wayne, of whom farther particulars may
ij bad, or by addressing & line to the subscribes

Li t. Lapoct co. Ja.
dail ee GARRET BIAS

ie

May, 1234.—3w5,

RU VSB & GHU!
EG to inform the citizens nt Ciieago
Mu neighboring villages, (hat their stock

se Books & Stationary
n- | jg received, which comprives a large and ext
sive axgortment of Miscollancous, Se houl, T
Ingical and Medizal Books, from Boston, N
—~! York and Philadelphia, many of them just
88 tighed and in elegant binding; Almanacks
il, { 1e25; various descriptions of writing, lot
a4 and other Paper, from the beat mamufacture
A, | variety of new Tracts; also, receipt, noto,
im | ter and day books; Maynard & Noyen’ supe
wr | black and red Ink and nk Powders: toge
- 1 with steel pens and cases, oullls, pencila; sil
plain and embossed Pencil Cases; pen and
—~| per Knives; Tooth and other Brushes
cy combs. oat
a Aten, a gor d assortment ataTTE able be
sad nap Te 7S; gentlemen's buck shin Gh
supe » 0 lk and bombazine Stocks, d&c.

joor| Agents far Morison's Vegetable Pill
FOUND,

msi Bf ooda adjoining this town, @ pac

ali eae of bile nots, &<

eral. property We should judge by ho contents

rman by the nane of Bernard Jost
ne 4 pedlar Wire own ean haps te ye
a ' a8


[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 4]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
Ah AU AIUIN,

IN DAY'S ADDITION TO OTTAWA,
HE subscriber hav: ng obtained title by pre-
& emption to an 80 are lot adjoining the o-
riginal plot of the town of Ottawa, atate of IIli-
nois, has proceeded to lay: off the garie into con-
venient lois for building, &c. and will sell at
Publix Auction, FIFTY LOTS, to be selected
from the different Blocks in the aurvey, on the

13th JUNE neat, in the town of Chicago, UL

To those who are acquainted with the delight-
‘ful situation of Ottawa, it will not be necessary
to speak of ite superior advantages being at the
junction of the Fox, with the Hlinois River and
surrounded with hydraulic power to any possible
contingency. In high water it is at the head of
navigation, and with an inconsiderahle expen-
diture applied to the improvement of the river if
joay and will probably beeome the head of nav-
igation at any stage of water, and the teymina-
finn of the contemplated Canal, authorized | to
be made from the said river to Chieago. Tho
lands in the immediate vielnity of Ottawa, and
all the adjacent county are arable and euscepti-
ble of culiyation and are not surpaseed by any
in the State for fertility.

The seonery in the neighbourhood is unrivaled
‘the health of the place equal te any other town
An the state situated upon a stream, and indeed
the friends of Ottawa clain for it advantages on
that score that no other town upon the: river
porserer, founded upon the faets of the ez,ire
absence of timbered and overflowed bottoms or
intervals, and 9 brisk current in the streams with
‘rocky anil sandy bottoms, alresdy there are nine
buildings on that part of the Town laid off by
the subscriber and seyeral others are in progress
af ‘erection.

To capitalists this sale will afford @ certain
opportunity of a good investment to Merchants,
Mochanics and business Men,’an opportunity is
here presented on secure or lower terms than
will probably ever occur again, eligible sites
for business and rcaidences amidst a population
inteligent, moral, active, enterprising and re-
gpectable, O1lawa was laid out by the Canal
Commixsioners in US31, is the County Seat ol
La Sally County and ia believed to bu destined
to take the lead of any part of the state, in four.
ing and Saw Mills and Manulactorica and their
consequent benefits the opinion ia founded upon
the fact of the unrivalled advantages of Ottaws
in her hydraulic power, its very alvantageous
sittigtion on account of navigation and) market,
having tho chain of the Orleans or New-York
and surrounded aw itis by a region of country
rich, fertile and dolighttul ind scarce a waste o
aid.

N.B. The facilines for building may be ob
tained here among which we have an abundances
of good Stone, «fine iWaterial for bricks ant
lime and several Saw Mills in the neighbourkooe

Bituminous Stone Coat.of an excellent quality
shounda in gbis neixbbourheod and will proba.
bly become an article: of esport eo.

JAMES DAY,

Ottawa, U, April 2th, JR35.

E.ist of Letters,
BR MAINING in the Post Oifee, at Juliet

Lihnpois, bet April, 1235.

Revd. BE. Ambrose Philip J. Nooker
Daniel Andrus Jacob Haveriand
farsel Brown James Irwing
Ley Catterill Rurdal Joiner
Archibald Crow] Rey. Wm Kirby
Michael Carury David Mahappy
Samuel Dixon Barnabas Monroe

Richard 4. D: Chester Marshall

John N. English Win. Rico

{| Mary Enoch Chester Sextun

Win. Fuiler Esq. John Squier

Mary Frazer Vriah Wentworth

Aclétiog Frazer David D. Wallace 2

Elijah Garton or G. W. Joaeph Zumait

Gray
A.W, BOWEN, P. AL
CP The vite of this Omics, ia changed to. th
Village of Juliet, and tho Mastern Mails, will t
received via. Chicago, twice a week.
List of Letters,
H EMAINING in the Post Office at Plair
field IHinois, Ist April, 1835.
Rey. J, B. Ambrow Rov. Wm. Kirby
Thomas W. Bradley Thoma J. Long
Warren W, Bixly Wyton Martin
Jonathan Covey — Gorshom Martin
Horace Chase Joshua M. Ridgeway
‘T. Collins J. A, Seeby
‘Thomas Dancan Stephen Sanford

a| Eldridge G. Eames Inane Stone

13. R. Hollen Sulius Sackett

1] John C. Mongh Alonzo Holman

«| George Hough Daniel W. Thomos
e| James Harris Wim. W. Wattles
Al tsanc Jessup William Wallace

L. FL ARNOLD, PB. ML
,cather Store
Wa. H. TAYLOR,
AS opened an extensive Boot, Shoe a1
Leather Store, on Dearborn sircet,
few rods north of Mess:s Newborry §+ Dok
Store, where may be fonad a great variety,
ns good stock, ag ean be found ut the “1
st.” which he oflers at Wholesale or R
ail, nt the lowest prices, consisting of
600 pairs men’s cotrse BOOTS;

of} S00 fo, do. fine do

ni goo. do, do, coarse SHOES;

nH) g90 do, do, tine do;

S00 do. Taties Gaiter, Pruneila: ond M
"! rocco Boots;

299 do, do. eslf do;
500 do, — do, prunella, kid and ecal She
2n0 de, children’s Boote nnd Shoes;

40 do. jolknt’'s Bootees;
Sole und Upper Leather, of first quality,
od} sale cheap lor cash.
MY. HLT, ill manufaeture to arder,
{the shortevt notice, all. kinds of Boots a
of| Shoes, which he will warrant of the best
bo | Jenther and workinanship,
at| Chicago, July 8, 1854,

&, CaRD.

HE subscriber, who kept the Groonvi
Springs at Harrodaburgh, Ky., in 15
q and late the Washington Hall,
Hillsborough, IIL, and last the Mi
AA L. sion House in Springfield, IML,
n-| ae removed back to his old stand
ea Hilisborough, where be has opened a
¥-| souse of Entertainmen'
oe for travellers and othera. who may fayor
“with acall. His house is convenient and co
oF | Portable; his table will be furnished with
i c boat the couniry affords; his bar will be sup
jor | cdl With the choicest liquors, and his stable
her | be well supplied with forage. ‘Travellers. 1
vor, | test assured that no exertions shall be want
a} en hija part to render them comfortable. ‘Tha
pn ful tor a feyare, he hopes to share a conti
ic patronage, é
71 ME itis name over the door wilh he bins
Tet) ior the present. HH, C, BENNET
Odaber, (BANE

cea erin eemniainomeateancenneninnt at
7, 0 nd Blocks for sale oo the Sel
SO ea Lento lQmnb1—12,
Water Lote 15 and 16, all in. block oh;
Blocks 22u-] 280-136-196 and 125.
Sent, 10. H, PE


[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 5]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
te RASS ERESS CARRS OER SE Eee ee ee ee
a ago, Cook Go, Mlinvis, om the Stat: day

ot March, 1895,:
A, Kirby, Hannaa’ W,

Allger, William Kent, Alexander:C,

Arrasmith, dames Kittnidge, Joho P,

Allen, Edward Koaggs, Jamen
Allen, E. King, Elm’ A.
Aiama, Joseph Kirby, Haonah a,
Ainbrose, Joshua E.8 * lap ee
Allan, Richard B. Luce, William
Andrus, Tomas Lucae, Robsrd
Atkins, Jearuin Lewin, W. Y,

BR. Lee, John I..
Bullen, Jeduthan 2 Langer, Jacob
Buttertield, Zimry Loveland, Robert,
Barrows, Mary Luene, Ann
Bomgarten, Moritz 2 Lozser, Mr.
Bennet, Lyman 2 Lamb, Caleb
Barton Wooster J, Lamb, Adan
Britain, Hiram Z. 2 Lathrop, Samuel 8.

Bertholf, Marcus Leg, George
Bleke, Levi Loring, Wm,
Bradstreet, Athert G.4 M-
Brown, Lemuel Moore, John,
Brown, Clarrisa M’Ewen, Win. Bs
Bush, Riley Mason, Matthias

Brown, Harriet BE, Martin, Patrick
‘Bartlett, Charles H, 3 Milow, John
Brown, Adam Miller, Jesse
Bandle, William Milated, Jobn
Beach William HH, M’Fadin, James
Brown, Joseph N, Morley, Janies
Boardnan, W. E. Mitchell, Henry

Bailey, Bennet Maynard, Elias
Bench, Reuben Micliriski, Mr.
Beaubien, M. B, Moore, Neleon
Brookes, Samuel. Moore, James
Barry, John S, Musgrave, Jehn
Bane, George B, Murry, Alanzo 2
Barton, Ratus Morrison, T. M.
Jandle, Ann Mack, Stephen
Bennett, Amos Meigs, David
Bennett, Hiram 8, Miner, Amanda 2
Berger, F.C, Mackie, James
Brown, Schuyler Merrill, Winthrop
GC Miller, John
Curtin, L. G. Miller, Marshall
Chureh, Benjamin M'Lean, John Y.
Childs, Sarah Merals, Wasiinston
j Carpenter, Gilbert M’Kean, Joseph,
1 Covalt, Enos Malone, Patrick
Crandal, Alva Minard, Ira 2

Cooley, Sinan Mecker, Joeeph
Cook, Harvey Matthews, James G,
Compart & Coquillard, N,

Chase A, R, Nelson, John M, &
iain, dohn 8 Newton, Daniel

oy, Orenge Natta, John V,

emt, Sarah ‘

Conant, Rben Osbern, Wm.
Cooley, Hdward W.2 Quthet, Daniel 3
Conter, Willard Pr,
Paddock, Jane

Chesnut, Jules
i Cobins, Jeredat Paliner, N. HH.

(Chadwick, Juseph Page, Preierick W, 2

Carpenter, Mir. Parker, Manson

Carter, J Parkes, Curtis

Paine, Seth 2
in Preston, Esther

Clark, John A, Parmlee, George B,

Chancie, Joseph Puller, Ludwell

Cutler, Morris Paige B. R.

Ese cil, Archibald | Pank, Wm. W.

Chevalier, Louis P, Parcel, Aaron
Chase, Bnoch Poke, Fdinund

Clark, Baldwin T. Phelps, Jamea H.
» Pearsons, Hiram
Dunham, ai. A
Dean, Janies 1. Robersun, Daniel —
Doane, Seth B, Riddle, Mr.
Davie, Jobu Rowley, Herman A.
Dudley, John Jr. Ritchey, James
.| Doel, Asa Riwchard, Charles J.
Dustin, Thomas Rathburn, Amos
Dunn, Dangerfield — Rice, Samuel
') Downer, Pierce Risley, Horace
Downer, Stephen Reeder, Henry
ra Reed, ‘Thomas
Bester, James 8 Richards, Charles 7,
Evans, Sciota 2 Russel, John
Enrly. Henry A. Rogers, Exward A.
wins, J. 2. Renwick, Pheopilus
Eager, [iram Romer, Carl
Evert, J. 8. 8.
KF. Schermertorn, M. L,
Folliott, Jonathan Skinner, EP.
Vorbes, Stephan Sricher, Jobn
Foster, Culeb Smith, George
Faller, Porter Stephens, §* co.
Fowler, James W. Squire, George
Fowler, Albert Senture, Antoine
"| Pord, Ebenezer Stevens, Layent
Freewsn, Ford Spring, ‘Thornas O.
d G. Sesotler, Veljrj
8! Gooding, Win, @ Stules, David

#1 Galuoha, Russell L, Stevens, I.

1} Galusha, Jacob A. Shelden, Oliveann
T) Goodrich, Grant 2 Steward, Joseph
+} Goodell, Nancey Ann Sioan, Doughirs

Goddard, Mr, Starne, Shepard
Goiltrey, T. Shoup, Michael
Gilbert, Jonathan Schnuder, P..
Grom, Qranto 2 Sammons, Ricard
Gleazen, Joseph Stevens, lenac

» | Galusha, Jacob Saith, Jeremish

Goodrich § Abell, South, Orange
Gardner, Juno B, Sinith, Henry’
Garton, Ehjsh Shintatfo, James
Gibbe, James H. Simons, E,
Goddard, Wa. H. Steele, Richard
Gooding Jasper. A. vy,
Gifford, Hezekiah Torst, Janes
Gunn, Medad Hh Taylor, Justin
Garland, J. J. Todd, Hugh &

H. ‘Thomas, John
Hutehins, Nathan‘ Titcomb, ‘Timothy
Holder, Jexse Tilman, Mr.

How, Phineas 4 Tobdell, Joseph
Hult, Jeremiah 8, Titterington, Charl
Hiil, Issac L. Thompsond, John
Hall, Cynthia ‘fucker, Alexr. H. ot
Holmes, Cyrenius Taylor, Deodat
Howard, Elbert Tuttle, James B.
Hugunin, Leonard C,
House, Chester Vanderbogart, H.
Honks, Juines C, Vantleet, Jolin
Hickok, Nelson. Yardon, George
{Low af Whittier, Vaseeur, Noel
1 Hobson, Jesse Vann, Angeline
Alarris, James Volk, John
Harris, David W,
unt, William Wood, Wm
Holcomb, Samuel B. Woods, Jobn He:
Harrison, Wooster Weatover, Roy K,
Holliday, Wow 8 Whi
Hallam. 3,11.


[Source PDF page 11; newspaper page 3; column 6]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
PECTFULLY
stawa, Illnois.
services in the inhabitants of Coke and
the sujoining countien.
• Agencies and Conveyancing will also meet
with prompt attention.
Ouised, June 1, 1834.
Sma0
REMOVAL.
COLLENS & CATON,
ATTORNEYS & COUNSELLORS AT LAW,
OFFICE twedent eant of the Raptist Church
And Solleitors in chancery.
up stairs, South Water-street.
Chicago, JAme 4, 4834.
P. 8. Conveyances. contract», de. executed
in the neatest manner and with the greatest des-
patch.
JAMES 1. COLLINS.
J. DRAM CATON.
To Rent:
LARGF, and handsome-
ly finished Store of 20 by
45 feet, including counting
room.
Also, three beautiful
rooms suitable for officer.
The sbove are sita-
ated in the handsomest part of Chicago, tin
"Kinzie's Addition" to
this town.) and hy tar
the best finished rooms in the place.
Fur tcrmos
apply to
JOHN H. KINZIE
Od. 1. 1631.
Town Maps.
JUST received and for sale, Lithographic
Maps of the Town of Chicago, including
the School Section, "Kinzie's Addition," Wa-
ban-sia, de. bandsomely executed.
KINZIE & FORNYTI.
June 18, 1831
They can aiso he found at the office of the
"Chicago Demociat."*
J. S. C. HOGAN,
FFERS at Wholsule and Retuil, at his Storo
in Bouth Water Strect, one door below
the Post Office,
Dry Goods, Groceries,
Hardware, Crockery and Glass Ware.
Also—a quantity of 8by 10, and 7 by 9-Windere
Glass and Sush.
doz. corn BASKETS;
200
sides Sole Lenther;
60
do
Upper do.:
B doz. Calf and Kip Skins.
Just receised from the Massilon Iron Worke,
-1L80-
(Ohio,) 4 tons superior CASTINGS, consisting
Potash and Sugar Kettles;
Pots, with and without covers, ane L. sizes:
Dish and Tea Kettles: Harrow Teath;
STorEs, d'c.
which he will sell as low for cash an can be
bougat west of New-York.
Jody 301, TH31.
Boot & Shoe Minking.
I tuberiber having recently commenced
the above businees, next door to P. Co-
ben's Store, will be kept ou hand
• goud assortment of
BOOTS,
suited to the call of the country. Gentlemen
wishing Fine Boots, water proct, will be accom-
modated with the best materials, and fashiona-
ble style. Most kinds of'work kept constantly
on hand, or made to order on short notice.
L. W. MONTGOMERY.
Chiengo, Der. 16, 1833.
Agency.
EW-YORK American,
Daily, Tri-weekly
and Semi-weekly: American Plough Boy,
New-York Farmer, Rail-Road Journal and Re-
gister of Internal Improremonts, Mechanice
Magazine and Register of Inventions Subwerp:
tions for the above publications reccived py
StewaRT, at Col. Hamilton's office.
Chicago, Nor. 20, 134.--52
Caution.
Lal, persons are forbid cutting or drawing &-
way any Tunher or wond trom E. Th. of S.
W. quarter section No. Two, in Township No.
Thirty Eight, North of range no. Fourteen East
Also I. Il, of the S. W. quarter of section No
two, in Township No. Forty, North of Range
No. Thirteen Fast, under penalty of the Law.
S. C. GEORGE
Chicago, Nor. 21st, 1R34.
Musical Tastruments.
A
NEW and Extensive assortment of the
most modern and approved musie and mo-
sical Instruments, such as Piano Fortes. of ele-
gant and newest fashion? Clerionett and Hugies,
Gaitars, Violins and Violincellon: Trumpete,
Drums, Bass Drums, Fifes, Flagilette, Pocket
Horns and Hautbose, «ec.
All of which will be sold at unusual low pri
cer.
The above articles to be found al the Do.
troit Book Store, and at Jno. B. Piquette • Jew-
elry Store.
Detrout, Nor. 8. 1831-51 tC.
IY GOODS.
J L. WILSON & CO.
A Pre Goods, Groceries, Haricure Crockery.
RE now opening an extensive stock of
.fr.;-calicoes,
cloths, sattinette, circassians,
flannels, sheetings, Tickings, de.
Ready made
clothing.
Coflee, ten, sugar, pepper, spice, liquors, dec.
Shovele, pades, braa kettles, batta, screwe,
saws, wrought iron hinger, &e.
TROY NAILS, and Windme Gluss.
Dearlorn st. next door to the *cily boot shoe and
leather store. Chicago. Sett. 18:34.
42
IS enhecriber are now receiving and
Goods at Wholesale.
offer for sale, at Wholesale and Retail,
o li exteneive sesortient of
Dry Goods, Groceries,
Hardware, Crockery de.
Dealers in the interior wii, fnd it to their
advantage to call before they go to St. Louir,
A
or the East, on there goode were purchased of
Imports in New York,
and can be afforded
at a low price.
HUBBARD & Co.
July 1.
Tin, Sheet tron and Store
I OO
TlE subecriber would repertfally inforen
CORNER OF IKAHBORN AND LANE-STRATI.
his friends and the public in pensral, that
he has commenced the abore bariness, and that
4
April 99, 1634.
Tow Lote tue Sale.
TATEK Lot no, 19 is Kiasia a Addition,
and Lole 97 and 85 block 5
Spil. 10,
L. TEARSONS,
ATTORNEY A COUNSELLOR IT LAW,
• barrels pose unloads Gor
ALIE in roo
the Bahoomi
• Manan AS

[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 1]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
HOIR AND MiCHeAsCANAL.
Sec. 1 Be it enacted, by the People of the State
of Illinora, represented in the freneral «Areea-
bly: —That the Gottenor of this State be,
and ne le hereby Authored at empowered
to negotiate • Loan, solely on the pleige of
the Canal Lande and tolle, se hereinfier pro-
vided, for the parpose of aiding, in connection
with such other mesas ne may be hereafter re-
ceired from the Gorernment of the U. States,
in the construction of the Illinois and Michigan
Caosl, a sum of money not exceeding bye bun-
dred thousand dollars, which sis. be required
to be peid at wuch timee, by instalments as the
same may be needed, in the progress of the
said work, as near as the mme can be estima-
8Rc. 2. The Governor whall cause to be son-
stitated certificates of Stock for the raid lean
to be eniled the WIllinois and Michigan Canal
Stock," signed by tha Auditor, and counter-
signed by the Treasurer bearing an interest not
exceeding five per cent per. annom, payable
semi-annelly at Vandalia, or at some bank in
the city of New-Tork, or either, as may be a-
greed upon, and reimbursable an the pleasare
of the State, at nay time after the year one
thousad eight hundred and sixty.
SEc. S. The Governor shall take and use all
proper means and messures for the transferring
of the said stock.
8ke. 4. It shall be deemed a good execu-
tion of the said power to borrow, for the Gov-
ernor to cause the said certificates of Stock.
when created, to be soid: Provided, that the
mid stock shall not in acy care be sold for less
than its par value.
Sec. 5 li shall be the duty of the Governor
to enuse the said monies from time to time,
when paid or advanced, to be deposited in some
wafe bank or banks until waoted for use, at the
best interest that can be obtained for it, to be
drawn out as bereinfter provided, taking
therefor the proper securities for the safe keep-
ing of the same.
Sec. 6. The monien thus loaned the premi-
unna arising from the asle of nuy stock this
crented, the proceede of the Canal lande and
Town lots, and all of the mores an any way
erising from the contempiated canni, shall con-
stitute the "Canal Fund," and shall be used
for canal purposes, and for no other whatever
until the said canal shail have been completed:
Prorided, that notbing here contained hall
be so constructed as to prevent appropnations
from being roade, out of the said fund, for the
semi-annual payment of the interest upon the
cans! stock herein authorized to be created:
and the Governor i hereby authorized to cause
the said interest to be paid out of the said
fund.
Sec. 7. That the revenue arising from the
Illinois and Michigan Canal, and from the
lands granted or that may hereafter be granted
to the State of Blinois by the Congrees of the
United States for the construction of the eaid
canal, and the nett tolls thereol, are hereby
pledged for the payment of the interest aceru -
ng on the stock that may be created in pursu-
ance of this act, and for the reimbursement of
the principal of the same.
Bec. 8. The Governor of this State, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, slis!
appoint five practieal, skilful persone to consti
tute a board, to be known under the style anc
deacription of *The Board of Commissioners o
the Tilinois and Miebigan Canal," and he shal
denignate one of such commissionere to be
President thereof, one to be Tressurer, and one
to be Acting Commissioner; and the Govern.
or slall fill wuch sacancies as may occur in the
Board, during the recess of the Legislature.
Sec. 8. The Governor shall have power to
temove from office any canal commissioner,
at bis alecretion.
Sac. 10. The acting commisioner shall be
allowed a salary oftwelve hundred dollars per
aapuro, and the rest of the Board shall each be
allowed a compensation of turee dollars per
day while necessarily employed in the burinces
of the cans).
Sec. 11. The said Board of commissioners
in hereby constituted a body politic and corpo-
nate, with full power and authority in their
corporate name to coutret and be contracted
with, sue and be sued, defend and be defended
plead and be impleaded, in all the mattere and
things relating to them as canal commission-
ers; and they shall have and use & common
Bes) of such device as the Governor way di-
rect.
8ac. 12. The Board shall appoint a Secre-
tary, whore duty it shall be to keep a true re-
cord of all their proceedings. They shall hold
quarterly meetings, and special meetings
whenever two of them, or the aeting coinmis-
sioner may desire it, and any three of them
shall constitate a quorum to do businese.
Sec. 19. Before entering upon the duties of
their office, each of the said commissioners
aball make oath or affirmation, faithfully, hon-
estly, and truly to execute and discharge all
the duties and obligations berein imposed upon
them, and each of them as canal coramiasioners
and they shallseveral give bonds to the Gov-
ernor, in the sum of ten thousand dollars with
suficient wureties, for the faithful discharge of
the duties imposed upon them by this act, Pro-
rided, that the Governor may at any time re-
quire additional bonds of the said Treasurer,
whenever be may think that the safety of the
funds requires it.
Sc. 14. Whenever all or any part of the
boney upon any contract shall become due
t shall be the duty of the Treasurer to draw
his warrant or check therefor, in favor of the
contrector, upon the Bank or Banks in whiche
the canal fund shall have been deposited, which
warrant or check shail be countersigued by
the acting commiesioner, and shall be under
the seal of the Board.
8sc. 15. It shall be the duty of the acting
commissioner, to obtain from the Carbier of
the Bank or Banke is which the said fund shall
have been deponted, a quarterly report, exin-
biting a true account of all moneye received in
deposit on scount of the canal fund and pard
out of the said fund during the previous quer-
ter, which report shall be laid before the Board
of Canal Commissioners, and within twenty
daya thereafter shall be examined by the said
board and compared with the accounts of the
Tressurer, and an entry shall be made in the
books of the said board, that the said examina-
tion hss been tade by them and that ibe twu
accounts correspond, if such be the caae, and
each commotamoner present shall sign his name
to the record of such examrastion.
SEc. 16. It shall be the duty of the acting
comaussioner, Lit. In wake, under ‹be direc-
tion of the board all necessary coniracte for the
en, Sa. Lo vaforce the faithful executio
pretorred against
y all persons concessed, of the duties and o
cions imposed upon their by thie sc
bequendy sod curfall into
4b.

[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 2]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
i of the canal, ana the progress of the
vers therega.. Sth. To have the imp-ediate
care and superintendance of the canal and all
matters relating thereto. -

Be. 17 The said canal shall not be loss
then forty-five feet wide at the surface, thirty
fect at the base and pf sufficient depth to in-
aure a navigation of'at least four feet, to be
suitable for ordinary canal boat navigation, to
be supplied with water fron Lake Michigan
and such other sources aa the canal commis-
sioncra may think proper, and to be constructed
in the manner beet calculzted to promote the
permanent interest of the country.

Src. 18. They shall take efficient and pro-
per mieewures for the immediate construction
of the aid canal, shall put euch parte of it as
they may deem proper, under contract ss here-
in provided, and vhall have the general care
and superintendance thereof, ‘

Src. 19. They shall inspect and examine
into the sccounts, books, stale of the treasurer
and all of the proceedings of the ‘Treasurer
and of the Acting Commissioner.;

See. 20, They shall furnish the acting eom-
tnissioner with all proper means and” facilities
that inay Le necessary ty enable him to dis-
charge the duties herein imposed upon him.

Sec. 21. They shall have toll power and
authority, i their good judgment to do in re-
lation to the constraetion and completion of
the said canal, ali things not otherwise herein
expreasly provided far,

Sue. 22. Wt shall be lawful for them to enter
upon and use uny lands, water, streams and
materiale of any description necessary for the
proseeution of the works contemplated by this

See. 23, They may employ such and eo
many agents, engincers, surveyors, draitemen
and other persona as they may judge necessary
to enable them to discharge ther duties as
commissioners, and may psy such compenan-
tion as they shall judge reasonable to each
person so employed,:

Sec, 24. Pablie notice shall be given of the
time and place, at which proposals will. be re-
‘ceived for entering into contracts; which no-
tice shall be previously published for at least
six weeks in the newspaper printed at Chicago,
and in such other papers; either in this state
or eleowhere, a8 may be deemed proper.

Sze. 25, Proposals for contracts shall be
scaled, and shall be for a sum definite and cer-
tain, as to the price Lo le paid or received, and
shall be accompan. with good and sufficient
security, for the taithfu) pertormance of such
contmet,

Ske, 26, The commissioners shall not enter
into any contract for the supply of materia's
or the performance of labor without previously
taking satisfactory security for the faidhful
pe-formance of such contract, according to its
terma,

Sec, 27, The Board may if they think the
interest of the state requires it, retain one half
of the amoust due upon Any contract,
until the contract shall have been completec
at which time all arrearages shall be paid up
andin no care xhall more than three fourths
of the amount dae upon any contract be paid
watil the work shall have been completed.

Ske. 28. All contracts concerning the ¢on-
templated canal, shall be made in writing, un
der the geal of the board, and of each contract
three copies shall be executed by the parties
one of which shall be retained by the board,
and one shall be immediately forwarded to the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and by him filed
ih his office,

Sec, 2, All materials procured or partially
procured undera contract with the commis-
stoners, shall be exempt from execution, but it
shail be the duty of the commissioncrs to pay
the money due for such materials to the judg-
nent creditor of the contractor, under whore
execution, such materials might have been gold,
upon his producing to them due proof that hia
execution would have so attached, and such
payment shall be held a yalid payment on the

contract,

Src. 30. In case of the death of any canal
contractor, who shall at the ume of his decease
be indebted to any laborers for work done on
tho canal, it shall be lawful for the board if
they think proper, to pay such laborers out of
kny money that may be due to the deceased
Pontractor; and the receipt of such laborers
thall be 0 good voucher in off-sct to tho aun
lue to the deceased contrector from the board
on the final settlement between them and his
xccutory and administartors, Provided, That
he said person shall first obtsin a judgment
igainst the administrator of such deceased
routractor, and produce a certificate fiom the
court that the said judgment was rendered for
work done on the canal, or for materials fur-
hished thereipr and for no other cause,

Sac. 31 ‘The board shall from time to time,
make such rules and regulations not inconsis-
ent with the laws of thia state, in Tespect ty
he persons pployed sbout the canal, injury
lone to the said canal or locks, and the man-
gement and nasigation of the same; and im-
ose Buch forfeitures of money for the breach
fsuch roles and regulations as they ma
udge reasonable; but no forfeiture imposed,
hall for a single offence exceed the sum of
ifty dollars, over and above the amount of ne.
ual-damage done,

Sac, 32.” They shali cause a sufficient num.

er of auch rules und regulations to be posted up
OF pablic inspection, and shall trananuta copy
f-them from time to tine, to the Governor as
hey may be made, in their next quarterly and
anual reports.
Sec. 33, All rules, and.regulations and for.
biturea. eatablishad by them as aforesnid, shall
@ filed in the office of the Auditor, and a copy
hereof curtified by hin under his hand and seal
f office, shall be teceived in all courts of law as
ue proof that such rules, regulations and for.
citnies, Were by then established,

Sec. 34. The co.nmissioners shall examine
he whole canal route, and select auch places
hereon as may be eligible tor ‘Town sit es, and
suse the same tobe laid off into town dots, and
hey shall cause the canal lands in OF near
‘bicago, suitable thereivr, to be laid off into

EC. 35, ey inay from time to ti \-
bed to well such Piste af the oon Lie
canal route, as may be necessary to pay the
Merwat, that nay be due upon the loso herein
gets lgshe creniens doduetin theretrom,

um may arise from the ca.
il wtock; Provided, That none of the ha oh
te whall be suid for the aext five ears, onless
e Govonorand & majority of “The Board of
anal Commissioners,” shall decide that it wali
: for the interest of the canal to do ao; and if
wy shall determing not to sell, then the Gove.
or shall cause the interest on the said loan, ™
ines due, to be paid out of the - wal fang
fae in the six, section of th. act.

zt, Public notice of all sales of canal
ta or lands, shall be given in auch newspapers,
ot fess than three in nuinber) either in this of
other States, as the Board may think best, ai

mE i ie woany wale.

37, All lots aball be sprained prior
sale thereof, and ulieil bu soldat public auc
on for cash; but they shall not in an ‘cane be

Bec. Sh. i
7 i


[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 3]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
rules that now govern the Registers and Recei
vers in the United States lage offices in thie
state, except se heie.. provideo.
Sec. 30.
.It shall bo the duty oftle Treasn-
rer, upon the payment or the purchase money,
to grant to the parchaser or purchasers, a cer-
sificate containing a description of the land or lots
purchased, and the price for which the name was
anld, and shall forward a duplicate of such eer-
tificate to the Anditor of the state who shall re-
cond the same: and the persons holding such a
cortificate, shall upon presenting the same to the
Governor, receive a patent for the land described
therein, argued by the Governor and counter-
signed by the Secretary of Sinte, with the sea!
of the State ailixed thercto.
Sxc. 40.
All moneys paid to the Treasurer
for the purchase of any canal lands or lots, shall
be by him immediately deposited in some Bank.
under the direction of the Governor,
for the
payment of the interest on the canal loan.
8ec. 41. None of the board of canal commis.
sionere shall be allowed to purchase any of the
canal Izads or lote herein authorized to be pold,
nor shall they or either of them. in any way, ci-
ther directly or indirectly, be concerned in any
such purchase, or have any unanner of interest
therein; and all sales which said commissioners
or any ofthem sliail be in any
way interested,
shall be absolutely null and void: the purchase
money shall be forleited, and the land shall re.
vert to the canal fund.
ty of a violation of the provisions of this see-
Any commissioner gui!-
tion, shall be deemed to have perpetrated a frud,
and upon indictment and conviction thereof in
any court having competent jurisdiction, shall
be punished by forfeiture of his oflice, and fined
in a sum not less than one thousand nor more
than five thousand dollars, Procided, That a
prosacution for such offence shall be commenced
within ten years after she commission of the
samic.
Sec. 42. Ifany two or more persone, shall
combine themselves together for the parpose of
lessening competition at the sale of any of the
canal lands or lots, or if they shall agree or have
any understanding among themseives, that they
will not bid upon one another at any suck sale,
for the purpose of obtaining the said canal land»
or lots at a low price, the same shall be deemed
a fraud; and any person or persons convicted
thereof in any court having competent juriscic-
fion, shall be fined in a sum not less than one
bundred nor more than one thousand dollars:
one midiety thereof to the use of the person in.
forming, and the other moiety to the canal fund;
andany patent issued for any lands or lots pur-
chased an aforemaid, shall be absoletely null and
roid; the money paid therefor shall be forfeited.
and the lands or lols so purchased, shall revert
to the canal fund. And it is hereby declared to
be the duty of the State's Attorney, to prose.
cute for all nuch offences; Prorided, That all
such prosecutions shall he commeneed within
ten years after the commiseion of the offence.
SEc. J3.
'The board of commissioners whall
gunrterly, viz. on the first Monday of March.
Junc, September and December in each year.
make minute and partieular report to the Gor-
ernor, winch report shail set forth in a plain and
intelligible manner, ail of their acts and doings in
relation to the said canal and canal lands sna
lots: all the money received and expended: the
work done, and the price allowed for the vari.
ous kinda of work: the contrects made, with
whom made, and the security given: the num-
ber of engineers, draflamen clerks and agents of
every description employed by them, and the a-
mount of compensation paid to each; the pro-
gress of the canal; their contemplated plans for
the next three months, with an estimate of the
probable amount of money that will be required
to be expended for canal purposes during that
time: together with such other matters and
things ns they may see fit to add, and also the
amount, time and rate of'any loan made by vir-
tue of this act, which report, or the outlines
shereof, the Governor shall cause to be publish.
* Sec. 44.
They shall annually, on the first
Monday of Decemler, make a report to the Gov-
ernor, setting fourth all their acts and doings in
relation to the canal, and canal land and lots,
during the provious year, in liko maoner as is
required of them in their quarterly reports, con-
taining such statements and estimates for the
year, as quarterly reports do for the quarter.
JAMIES SEMPLE,
Speaker of the House uf Representatives.
A. M. JENKINS,
Speaker of the Scrute.
APRovED, Feluary 10th, 1-35.
JOSEPH DUNCAN.
Watches and Jewelry.
J. HI. MULFORD,
AVING
just return.
ed from New-York
and Philaduiphia, with
extensive assortment of
Clo ks, Watches,
dewelry, d'e.
comprising an grent a vari-
ty of goods in his ine, as has ever been offered
Weat of Buffalo; consisting of
Gold and Silver Patent Lever, Lopine, Eng-
linh and common Watehes:
Alabaster and Ebony 15 day Time Pieces—-to
strike hourse and half hours:
Curtis and Donning's 8 day time pieces:
Rich diamond, pearl, cameo, and agate Breast
1
Pins: do.
d
Pearl, jet, cameo, filagre and vine Ear king»:
do.
Jet Finger Rings:
Gold cable and curb Ladies Watch Chains;
Cutlery nud Fancy Articles.
Mathematical Instrumenta; Pocket Pistols:
Roger's best silver steel Raizore:
Powder Finaks and Shot Poucbes:
Thermomelere: Measure Tapes;
Double and single barreled Fowling Pieces:
Table and desert Knives and Forks;
Back gammon, chequer and chess boards, dice
and chese men; Double Mirrors;
Snuffer and Trays: pocket books and wallets:
A great variety of dirk, pocket and pen Knives;
pectacles.
Gold, Silver, Plated and Steel Spectacles, to
uit any persons eyes.
S
lusic-
A lot of good Mosic Boxes, of different sises:
larmonicas, and many other articles too nu-
serous to mention.
ilver Were.
A good assortment ever pointed Pencil Cases;
Table, tea, desert, cream, muatard and sait
Spoons; Sugar Tong»: Butter Knives,&c.
Indian silver work manufactured on the shor-
as notice, and as cheap as can be bought in
le United States.
Watch Repairing.
J. H. M. is determined that no pans shall be
ared in repairing all Watches entrusted to his
ev
are, on the shortest aotice and in a workmsn-
ke manner.
Cash pard for old Gold and Silter.
Chicago, May, 1834
NEW GOODS.
t0g
Jui
PETER COHEN,
WOULD beg leave to informs his old cus-
cel
tomers, and the publie generally,
has just received by brig Indiana, and hers
r sale on the most reasonable terma, a large,
mplete and aplendid assortment of
Dry Goods, Groceries,
CLOTHING,
sil suited to this soction of the country.
aka of Liquora, at wholesale and retail.
All
all
peetfully requesta the people to call and ez-
Ho
cus
Meera Newberry and Dole a More house,
une for themseives, at his store next door Lo.
suh
of
south water sin
Ph
Chago, No. 3, 1834. -49.

[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 4]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
NEWBERRY & DOLE,
Storage, Forwardiog and Commission

MERKCHANTS,
CHLCAGO-LLLIMOLE,

Agen for the Merchants Line.
,EFERENCES— ae
S.'T, Anmstnuvs, No.9, Conties Slip, N. York.
Rowsnrt Hesren, Esq. Aléany.
Barxen & Horr, Buffalo,
Oniven Newnenry, Detroit.
Cauvin Brrrain, Mouth St, Joseph.
Janes B. Camrarsr, Ottawa, Ill

Also, Wholesale and Retail Dealara in
Bry Goods Groceries and
PROVISIONS.

HUBBARD & Co,
Commission & Fornvardiig

WER CRIATIS
CHICAGOQ—ILLINOIS.

Gurpos 8. Hvananp,
Hasry G. Hupnann.
1 ener anna matinee nnn

JH HW. KENZIE,
Rowarding & Comuiissionr

TyeTRre # Sea ba
MERCHANT,
Agent forthe Troy & Eric Line.

REFERENCES:— ‘
R. Putsan, New-York,
G. P. Grirritn & Co, Troy N.Y,
Gnrigrirn, Baoniens & Sons, Rochester,
8. 'Tuompsos & Co,, 2 p roa
‘Towssenp & Cort, Butfato, N.Y,
Gippixes, Ba nowiy, Prask & Co.Cleaveland,
32K. Doan & Co,, Detroit MoT.
Ghirritin & Co, St. Joseph, M.'T.

Sourn & Baoruras, St. Lous, Mo,

I Auents for Troy and Enie Line.
W. R. Bausn, & Co. Gelena IL
Passawoutn & Bavsu, Green Bay, M. 'T.
(iF"Keeps constantly on hand, Sult, Flour,

Wintow Sash, Nails, See. low tor Cash, at
tis Waar [lause, opposite to Fort Dearborn.
“April 14, 3194.

SN%olesale and Retail.
FAL AND WINTER GOODS.
I HARMON, LOOMIS & CO.,
VITE the attention of the public to the
large assorsment of Goods shey have recent-
¥ received: CONSISTING OF
iFancy nnd Staple DRY GOODS,
Sonje of which are, Broad Cloths, Cassimores
lonjestie cloths, sattinetts, Peter Sham, goats
nircamlet, woollen and cotton flannels, Eng-
ishand French merino cloths, circassians, bom-
azines, bombazett, rattinet! moreen, frieze,
adging. Ruseia duck, canvess, ticking, ona:
om domentic plaid, check, colored and em-

ossed cambricks, calicow, a great variety of
uabty and figure, and many new and beautful
aligrns; furniture prints, shectings and #bir-
ingk, bleached and unbleached; satin jean,
fd cotton, Valentia, Mersailles.a id silk vea-
ingk, woollen #hirts and drawers, weollen enpr
nd dippets, men's and bay’s woollen gloves,
ik, cotton an’ woollen hosiery 5 ladies and
eotlemens gloves of ail descriptions. A fine
ssopiment of silks aad silk goods; Mcrino
hale; fancy handkerchiefs, cambricks, mus-
ins, laces, ribbons, coarse and fine linen, and
most every article in the Dry Goods line.
GROW, -

e have a large stock ofall kinds, comprising:
Loat, lump, Port Rico, New- Or- S,

leans, and brown Hayannah PEROTE:
# oO. au H. Molasses;

mperial, hyson, young hyson ngs

Hyson skin, aoa Souchong? } Teas 3
Pepper, allspice, sal oratis, ginger, chocolate,

Cmuamon, cloves, nutmegs, dried currants;
Cognac and American Brandy;
Holland Gin: St. Croix and Jamaica Rum;
Port, Madeira, Sherry, Mersailes,

Muscat, malaga, champaigne, > Wings;

and Claret
Box and keg Raising; prunes, almonds,
Filberis; Madeira and Brazil Nuts:
Porter; spermacitti candles; bar soap;
Cavendish, plug and eut Tobacco:
Lorillards best: Maccoboy Snuff: Pipes;
Starch, shot, bar lead, uiustard, pepper sauce,

Kel ke,
A choice sclection of CONFECTIONARY,

BAR DWARB,

A general assortment of fine Cutlery; house
nmings, butts, sermwe, brads, hand-saws,
al and shoe hammers, hatchets, draw knives,
nears, files, skates, curry combs, horse cards,
iba and brushes; a superior quality of Col.
ns’ Axes; grid irons, sad irons, steel trap,
afte irons, fry pans, coffee mills, dust brushes.
Tron, Steel, Nails, Glass, nad a lot of Joiners’
nels aml Saddlery good articles, which we are
illing to well at a very low price,

extensive, consisting
» red, C. C. and enameled
are, all sorts, GLAMBWARE:—cut glass
mblors and wines; cake plates and preserve
whes; common wine glavses; flint, knob and
minon glass tumblers; glass lanthorns, lamps
id lamp globes: prlass jars, decanters, Keo,
Intending to mako the Crockery trade a yrin-
is part of our business, our stock has bean
ected with the utmost caro, and we are per
aie shat it ie unequalled in this section of the
untry,
In addition to the aboys, among other arti-
8 not xpeeified, we havo for sale, Ingrain and
tton Carpeting; rose blankets, cotton halls,
viding, Wicking, eotton and woollen yarn,
ine, Iudivs and gentlemens India rubber over
dea; fur and seal skin caps, buck skin tite
i, &e.—the whole of which are offered tor
0 as cheap as shey can be purchased in this

ate. HARMON, LUOS.
Nov. 1. ABM, PENS & 0.

PHILO CARPENTER,


Yholesale § Retail Druggist,
AT TNE SIGs or THE GOLDEN MURTER,
South Water Street, ®hicago,

H 3 just received, and now of-
fers for sale, one of the lar-

Kestand best nelected assortments of
PET aS 2ND

MEDICINES,
‘ainis, Oils, & Dye-Stutts, |"
r offered in the Site of iitosis, rededer

i article usually called for at a Drug Store.
60, @ general and well selected assortment of

Pry Sivoceries, Crockery,

"the black, blu

and Glass Ware. ie
thor with an assortment of Hardware, and aa
eel rrnenlare ioois; of the beat work- vi
. or i it

arg Artles, monpiiie UN ee sar
aire course ips fine rmen's BOOTS; q
small, » BH;

select assortment of ‘Sehoal Book: aie fran

on and steel; saw till and cross ut i
vie ilgaetd Sele hoes, pseu on
i 1h

aes bed cords and cord oe
rie bg is prepared to at the lowest
ro? & long oxperience in the Drug line,’
cribor can with confidence invite ager
lerchante in the u oy, and the orders of

ing Ditemelt that all orders shall] By.

[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 5]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Apple Vision, checked against Tesseract; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
By the President of the United States.
ident of the alted Since of Amens, to.
Sale will lie held at Chicago, the sat of the
hereby declare and make known that a Pablie
Land Office for the North Baetern district of II.
Tinois, commencing on Monday, the 15th day of
June next, for the disposal of the Public Lands
within the limits of the undermentioned town-
ships and fractional townships, situaled on the
walera of the Illinois, Fox, Laplaine, and Ver-
million rivers, along the rout of the Canal au-
horized by the act of congress approved on the
ed of March, 1827, entitled " An net to grant a
quantity of Land to the State of Illinois, for the
surpose of'aiding in opening a Canal to connect
he watern of the Illinois river, with those of
Lake Michigan,
,and excluding the aiternate
ections reserved to the State of linois by the
provisions of said act, to wit:
North of the bake line and East of 3d principal
merulian:
Township 31, of range 4.
Township 32, of range 4, except sections 1,
and 3.
Township 33, of range 4, except sectione 1, 3,
3, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21,
31,33 and 35.
Township 34, of range 4, except sections 17,
19, 21, 23, 20, 27, 29, 31, 33,
35, -
Tolenship 35, of range 4
That part of Township 36, lying South ofthe
old indian boundary, of range 1.
Township 31, of range 0.
Township 32, of range 5, except sections 1,
3, 5 7, 9. 11, 13. and 15.
Township 33, of range 5, except sections 1,
3, 5. 7. 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21,
23,
25, 27,
29,
31, 33, and 35.
Township 34, of range 5, except sections 20,
31, 33, and 35.
That part of Township 35, lying West of Fox
river, and South of the old Indian boundary, of
range 5.
Townsirip 31, of range 6.
Township 32, of range 6, except sections 3,
5, and 7.
Township 33, of range 6, except sections 1.
3, 5, 7. 9, 11. 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 20, 27, 29,
31, 33, and 35,
Township 34, Sf range 6, except sections 23,
0, -7, 20, 3133, and so.
That part of Township 30, lying South of the
old ndian boundary, of range 6.
Township 31, of range 7.
Township 32, of range 7.
Township 33 of range 7, except sections 1,
3, 2, 7, 3, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27, 29, and
Township 31, of rango 7, except sections 11,
3, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27. 29, 31, 33, and
. That part of Township 35, of range i, lying
South of the old Indian boundary line.
Township 31l, of range 8.
Township 32, of range 8.
Township 33, of range 8, except sections 1,
.5. 7, 9, 11, 15, and 17.
Township 34, of range 8, except sections 1,
, 5, 7, 9, 11. 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23,
25, 27, 29,
1. 33. and 35.
That part of Township 35, lying South and
last of the old Indian boundary, of range 5, ex-
ept section so.
That part of township 36, lying South and
cast of the old Indian boundary, of range 8.
Township 31, of range 9.
That part of Township 32, lying North of the
ndian boundary and Weat of Kankake river,
frange 9.
Township 33, of range D, except sections
5, 7, 9. 11, 15, and 17.
Townhip 31, of range 9. except sections 1,
Đ. 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, -
1. 33. 35.
27, 29
Township 35, of range 9,
5, 7, 9. 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29,
except sections 1,
33, and 35.
That part of Township 36, lying South of the
Id Indian boundary line, of range 9, except
actions 25, and 35.
That part of Township 37, lying South of the
Id Indian boundary line, of range 9.
That part of Townships 32, and 33, lying
forth and West of the Indian bouadary line, of
wige 10.
Townshup 31, of range 10, except sections
, 7, 9, 17, 19, and 31.
3
S
Township 35, of range 10, except sections 1,
5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21,
23, 25, 27, 29,
1, 33, 11 and 35.
Township 36, of range 10, except sectiona 1,
5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29,
Township 37, of range 10,
13,15, 21,23, 25, 27,2931, 33, and 35, and
except sectins 1,
e fractionnl parts of sections 9, 17, and 19, ly-
g south of the old Indian boundary lino.
That part of fractional townsaip 34, lying
outh of the old Indian boundary line, of range
1.
That part of Townships 33 and 34, lying
orthwest of the Indian boundary line, of range
th
Township 35, of range 11, except sections 2,
di
17. and 19.
pr
Towuship 36, of range 11, except sections 1,
2, 7, 9, 11. 17, 19, 21, 29, and 31.
SO
Township 37, of range 11, exeept sections
. 2., 11. 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29.
That part of township 38, lying South of the
33, and 30.
Indian boundary line, of range I1, except
clions 1:, 23, 25, 27, 29, 21, 33, and 35.
That part of township 33, Jying South of the
Indian boundary line, of range 11.
Township 36, of range 12.
Township 37, of range 12, except sections 1,
5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27, 29, and
Townahip 3o, of range 12, excopt sections
5, 2, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29,
. 33, and 36.
That part of Township 39, lying South of the
Indian boundary line, of range 12, excet see-
20, 27, 34, ai 15
That part of Township 40, lying South of the
Indian boundary lins. of range 12.
That part of townships 35 and 36,
5121
rthwest of tle Indian boundary line, of'range
lying
live
Townahip 37, of range 13, except sections
5,
Township 38, of rango 13, except sections
5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29,
1
CAS
33, and 30.
Townshipe 39
pla
, of range 13, except sections 1,
1. 13. 16, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 49, e1, 33,
Icsa
ey.
'hat part of Township 30, lying Nortlest
A
he Indian boundary line, of range 14
ove
tied
hat part of towiship 37, lying Northwent of
Indian boundary line, of range 14, except
$1
ions 13, 14, and 23.
ractional Township 3é, range 14, excopt see-
quei
to t
83, 0, 7, 9, 11, 17, and 19.
rectional township 30, rango 14, except sec
• 3, 5, 7, 9, 15, 17, 19, 21, 27, 23, 31, 33,
JOI
ractional Township 40, rango 14, except sec-
Stat
• 19, 21. 20, 31, and 33.
Car
bat part of fractional Township 41, of range
ying Sout and Fast of the old Indian boun-
line.
Jo
ractional Townships 37 and 38, of range 15.
Cl
he lands reserved by law for the use of
ols or for other purposes will be excluded
Jo
M
I sale,
no esie to bo kept open for two weeke and
Cr
A.
enger.
Th
iven under my hand, at the City of Wash-
Gi
ington, the twelfth day of Febuary, Anao
L..
Domini, one thousand eight hundred and
Ca
thirty-five.
Do
ANDREW JACKSON.
Co
he President:
A.
Commedoner of the General Land Ofice
UAK HAYWARD
LA

[Source PDF page 12; newspaper page 4; column 6]
[uncertain: OCR-assisted column reconciled from Tesseract PSM 4, checked against Vision; verify doubtful names, figures, and damaged type against the scan.]
TO FREE Mpy
erwons slabining uli of a ptinn,
: yo aforonaty lands, are et
by 8 to the Satisfaction of iyo ray
ceiver, prior to the day of, kis Regier wd
ENERAL Lash Orvie oe
Feb 12, 15.

ih oles a do a

oa Just received eee
the vast enif hd iy now Opening 7,
ont Deannons of his Way Hora SE fia”

. yay A
ODS, consisting in panne? MOtinege

Foncy and Stn
Strpte py, +
SaboEB,
Groceries, of ai sorts:
s

Ssarkpyy) MN

Crockery, 7 imucare, Hardy,
pli Stel Paints, Oils, and 4 « rare
ther articles. tor mrad
t which he will a ee
irms. Those desitoy of

“al find it to their wleantage wot

ne his gouds and price, A fall aud

© MORE teagan te

Insurance Dy Fire
MMHTE subscribers havine hangs
Agents tor the Tour rite eo
tpany of the city of Nowyor ne
ago and the viemity, wil ie bes ‘
anist loss by Fire, on tedzonable iheeny *

daly 1 saee an HUBBARD ry

VE subscriber } eee too, ~
Ke stbscriber has Jat reeciy,?

iy York, the following ine New.
3 his line, which he offers for sale 1 wae
nd Retail, veny tow,; Mt Malia

Superfine black,
clotha; Dbl, mi ed exssimer
Marino cloths, and rire
i aiaalities and colors:
aight and dark Gingham ay i
Cold Flounces and gros aat eee
Gauze, Garniture, and gre de ny Re
Fronch Musiin; anid tabby vate iio,
6-4 and 2-4 Daria i cotton Ah Se
Biowa Halland sa Diner,
Fenta. and Ladies’ Gloyes i
Wo dlen and Canton Fane en
Readymade CLOTHING; | Ele
leached and brown shirtings;
Wadding and Batting; a Smt Seca,
Window Paper and ordering;
4 bales cotton Yarn: 8

2a di t
nd ofher DRY GOODS. both on tts

Maudware. y

ar co eayiae IX PART oF
ench, moulding & sash Pia: Press,
Socket, fartiens: inoeiine and teen
Knob and sto>k Locks: Brass tide ac.
Cupboard Turns and Door Rapene
Cartain Pins;
Table, pocket, of and shoe Kring:
Norfolk Latehes; Butts and Screws.
Malian Violin Strings;
mm ALSO

Nails, Swedes Iron, nail rods, cradle apd ray
eythes, Pitchiorks, Tin Ware, Brovss. Mani.
Rope, old and young hyson Teas, hiown, fat
id lump Sugara, molasses, coffee, epliad
hite and brown bar Soap, indigo, patent and
mimon candles, raisins, Crockery and Ghay
are, &ec. JOHN WRIGHT
May, 28,

AC, green and brown Broad

© and wattinet:
TESANE, Of Varios

and glags Rieke

M’CORMICK & MOON,
Manufacturers and Wholesale Dialers ty

HATS,

No, 109 Jetizreon Avevuo, Detroit.
HE subscribers keep constantly for sti
extensive assortment of HATS, gh
they can with contidence reeammre’,

and which will be disposed of for

Cash oy spproved paper, on as ee

sonable teria as can be puretiaver st

y regular House in the City of New-You~
erchants of Chicago and vicinity, and eitiea
r respectfully invited to call and examine her
ock, when thes visit Dotroit, and are ago!
sir orders will be gratefully receisel at
omptly executed,

pton hand or made to order, which wilde,
mparison in quality of material, ceatnen?
ish, Ke. with any manufactured 1) (he OF
New- York,:
Fur and Cloth CAPS, constantly on band.
* MCORMICK & MOOS.
Detroit, March 15, W334. Mie

‘arriage & Sleigh Making
HE subseribers reepectfully inform thect
izens of Chicago and ils vieuuty,
y have erceted a large and cominodings be
, fora shop, on Randolph street, and ae
pared Lo excente all orders in the Comey
Sleigh winking business, on the mos) ke
able terms.: ‘ f
REPAIRING done on short notice
; BRIGGS & HUMPHREY

fugust 13, AY

a8 ay
SPRING.
“AND COUNSELLOR AT LA®
And Soliciter in Chancery. é
FFICE. frat door north from the Trea
House, on Dearburn-strest.
hieago, Dee 3, VA.

2.
ublighed every W "
‘hieago, Cook co. HL on So
ver Meserg Jones & King Hard
TERMS. as
he Chicago Democrat is printed on 2 P
imperial sheet, and afforded ta
awa subscribers who have their papers
red by the carrier 83.: "
Jail auiecrtlers: those who rer
re at the office, #2 40. cas
fy eonts in addiben will be cha NCE
s where payment is nat msut ye en
pers will net un any insane oe
vs Where we have no authorizes ¢ i phe
the gubseription is ace companied by

begribers OF
pill be e2b-

@ Uae!

Ay person procuring alk
and forwarding the money,
toa seventh copy gratis,
VRMTIGEMESTS: For 17 i ered
or the first, and 25 exnte re he wait
t insertion. A liberal discount Wl

ove who advertise by. the ee:
yon WEST
tached to this officer is an acsortet

vont 8
TYPE, which are inferior 0 mrt as
(ft Books, Pamphlets, Blanks,

saith
s{&c.oxccuted with neatnens ane oy

eph Cloud exq. Osta wa
ee Dunn, P.M, Goleondt
i Coluan, Pp. poe ld

Mabl. Bpringtield,:
ee W. Crain, Pekin.:
Funk, Bloomingtornipis. -

mas Hartacll ot; cori:

Plain

, Bowen, pe:
eee aa, Yovepbe
Thomas Fingers
towler, esq. Abill-wa het
Nan-Yorks
Buffalo:
