CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — DIPLOMATIC TRANSCRIPTION

Issue date: June 24, 1835
Volume and number: Vol. II, No. 10
Place of publication: Chicago, Illinois
Publisher/editor: J. Calhoun
Source: Jan1835-Jul1835.pdf
Source PDF pages: 29-32
Completeness: Complete in the supplied scan: four source pages.
Printed layout: Six columns per scanned page; 24 page-column markers below.

Masthead (visually verified)
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 24, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 10.

Transcription conventions
Historical spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are retained where legible. Hyphenation at printed line endings is generally preserved. Square-bracketed notes identify physical loss, unreadable matter, or unusually uncertain OCR. No missing wording has been invented.

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 1 OF 6 =====

STATE BANK OF ILLINOIS.
AN ACT to incorporate the State Bank o
Illinois, approved Feb. 12, 1835.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the People o
de State of Illinois, represented in the Ge
seral Assembly, That a Bank of the State
of Illinois sball be established, the capital o
stock whereof shall be one million five hun-
dred thousand dollars, to be divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each; one mil
Tion four hundred thousand dollars of said
capital stock to be subscribed by individuals,
and one hundred thensand shall be reserved,
and may be subscried for by the State of
Illinois wheneser the Legislature thereol
my deem it proper to subscribe the whole
parts thereo as the condition of the
teway may justify
sc. 2.
The said capital stock may
heten ler be increased by individual subscrip-
tions, lo an amouat not exceeding one mil-
lion of dollars, to be sutscribed for and ta-
ken under the direction of the President and
Direr ors of the Corporation, in the same
manner as herein provided for the subscrip-
te: to the origi ai capital stock.
Sec. 3. I persons who shall become
holders of the capital stock of said Bank,
pursuant to this act, shall be and they are
hereby constituted a body corporate, by the
name of the President, Directors, and Com-
pany of the State Bank of Illinois; and such
corporation sball continue until the first dav
si January, in the year one thousand eight
bundred and sixty, and by that name, shall
le competent to contract and be cont.acted
with, sue and be sued, plead and be implea-
ded, answer and be answered unto, and in
all matters whatsoever.
Sec. 4 Thesaid corporation shall have
over to carry on the business of banking,
by discounting bills, notes, and other
iden-
ces of debt, by receiving deposites, and mak.
ing all other contracts involving the interests
or ses of money, by buying or selling gold
and sitter bullion, foreign cons, notes or oth
ere ilepres of debt, and by exercising such
othe rodental powers as shall be necessary
10 c
on such business.
Ser 5. The real estate which it shall
be inwial for said bank to purchase, hold and
conver, shall be-lst. Such as shall be
required for its inmediate accommodation in
the transaction of its business, or such as shal
hume been mortgaged to it in good faith by
way of security for loans previously contract
el, or for money due; or-3d. Such a
shail have been conseyed to it in satisfactior
of debts previously contracted in the course
of its dealings; or-4th Such as shall have
been purchased at sales upon jad, ments, de
crens or mortgages, obtained or made e
such debts; and said Bank sha! ot purchase
hoid or consey real estate in any other case
or for any other purpose; and all such rea
restate, not alsolutely necessary for the con
recient discharge of its business, shall be se
ep at kast once a year at publie sale, and i
the som offered therefor shall be sufficient t
reimburse the principal and interest of th
cebt, for which it was taken by sawd corpo
raton, it shall be absolutely sold.
Sec. 6. The said Carporation, shall no
drectly or indirectly deal or trade in buying
er selling any goods, wares or merchandize
or commodities whaterer.
Sse. T. The said corporation may har
and use a common seal—the same alter
break, chauge or renew at pleasure, an
may also make, ordain and establish and pu
o execution such bye laws, ordinances, rule
od regulations, as shall be necessary for th
goxi government of the said Bank, and th
udent and offcient management of its af
Tairs.
No bye-laws, ordinances, rules an
regulations of the saine, shall be in any wis
contrary to the Constitution and laws of thi
State, of of the United States.
sprain, Thil Principal at rid eat
Corporator
and an office of discount and Deposite as
brasch thereof shall be established at Van
calia; and the President and Directors afore
sad, may establish and discontinue such oth
er offices of Discount and Deposite as Branch
1s within this State, whenever the intere
of the community or Bank require, in num
ber not esceeding six, for the purpose
cacount and deposite, and the transaction
sach other business as may be legally conf
ded to them under the provisious of this ac
and to commit the management of all of th
aforesaid branches under such regulations,
try betary is adopt, to the nurde
persons as they shall cboose.
Sec. 9. For procuring subscriptions f
said Capital Stock, Jobo Tillson jr. Rob
K. MLaughlin, Daniel Wann, A. G. :
Wight, John C. Riley, Wm. H. Davidso
Edward M. Wilson, Edward L Pierso
Robert R. Green, Ezra Baker, jr., Aquil
Wren, John Taylor. Samuel C. Christi
Edmund Roberts, Benjamin Godfrey, Thor
a Mather, A. M. Jenkins, Win. Linn, V
S. Gilman, Charles Prentice, Richard
Hamilton, A. H. Buckner, Wm. F. Thor
tos, and Edmund D. Taylor, are appoint
commissioners to receive all subscriptio
therefor, and said commissioners or a chaje
ity of them, sbail first open in this State, o
or sore subscription bouke for said stock,
each days and at such places as they sh
deem expedient; and shall for such purpo
appoist a day giving at least thirty days pi
trous notice of such time and place in o
or mote of the pessnapers printed at the s

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 2 OF 6 =====

autborized to be subscribed for, snail not be
taken within twenty days after the books shall
be opened as aforesaid, the said commission-
books on nich of ten ali place e
they shall deem expedient, giving at leas
twenty days notice of the time and place of
re-opening the said books, in one or more o
the newspapers prioted at or near the place
of re-opening said books.
Sec. 10. The books for subscription
shall be kept open util all the original stock
to be subscribed by individuals shall have
been taken, and the sum of ten dollars on
each share subscribed for, shall be paid to the
said commissioners at the time of making
such subscription; such payments shall be
made in specie, bills of the Bank of the
United States, or certificates of deposite in
any of the Deposite Banks of the United
States, in New-York or Philadelphia.
As
soon as the Directors shall have been chosen,
and the commissioners hereby appointed shall
have been notified of their election, they
shall pay over the whole amount of subscrip-
tion, severally paid to, and received by them
in the same description of moneys so by
them received, into the hands of the Presi
dent and Directors of the said corporation,
taking their receipts therefor, to be delivered
as he shall have given bond accordio soon
according
law. Provided, That if in cinsing the books
it shall be found that more than one million
four hundred thousand dollars have been sub-
scrihed, the excess shall be taken first from
such as
reside out of this state, then from
corporations, and should there still be excess,
the same shall be taken in proportion from
the subscuptions over one thousand dollars,
until all are reduced to that amount, then
from all equally until the whole amount shall
not exceed one million four hundred thousand
dollars.
Sec. 11. The stock property and pro-
dential concerns of said corporation shall be
conducted by nine Directors, being stock-
hulders and citiz ns of this state, but no per-
son shall be a Director, who shall not at the
time of his appointment bold at least ten
shares of the stock of the incorporation.
Sec. 12. The election of Directors en-
der this act, shall be held at such time anu
place in the town of Springfield, as bail be
directed by the said commissioners, who, o
a majority of whom are hereby sppointed
Inspector of the frst electir
. ad the per-
sons then elected as Directors, shall hol
their offices until the second Tuesday or June,
1836, and until others are elected.
Sec. 13. The Directors for every sub-
sequent year, shall be elected on the second
Turday of June in every year, at seel me
day, and at such place within the
town of Springfield, and under the direction
at wuch persons as a majority of the Direc
for the time being, shall, by a resolution
stered on their minutes; appoint, anc
shai bold their offces for one year, or unti
others are elected in their stead.
Sec 14. After the first election, n
ek-holder who shall not have held hi
sl. for which he votes, four calendar month
previous to the day of election, shall be en.
tilled to vote, and the number of votes t
which storkholders shall be entitled in voting
for Directors shall be in the proportion fol
lowing: that is to say, for each and every
share, not exceeding four shares, one vole-
for every two shares above four and not ex
ceeding thirty, one vote,-for every fou
shares above thirty, and not exceeding nine
ly, one rcte,-for every six shares abov
ninety and not exceeding one bundred, an
fifty, one vote—-and for every ten share
above one hundred and fifty, one vote. Bu
no person, copartnership, or corporation, shal
be entitled to a greater number than one hun
dred votes. In all elections for Directors
votes may be given either in person or by
proxy, but no person shall vote by proxy
more thau one hundred votes, and no indi
vidual Stockholder who shall be a residen
of the county where the election is to b
beld, at the time of such election, shall vot
by proxy, unless in case of unavoidable ab
sence, except females or minors, provided n
President, Cashier or other officer of sai
bank or branches thereof, sball be permitte
to vote at any election for Directors as th
attorney, agent or proxy of any Stockhold
ers, protided alao, that no President, Cash
ser or Director of said Bank shall, during th
term of bis office, be eligible to a seat in ei
ther braach of the General Assembly of thi
State.
Sec. 15. All elections shall be by ballo
and the nine persons who shall bave th
greatest number of votes, shall be the Direc
tors; and if at any election, two or mor
Directors ten the Director er of male v
Directors,
been duly elected, ball proceed by ballo
and by prurality of votes determine whic
of the said persons so baving an equal burr
ber of votes, shall be Director or Director
so as to complete the whole number, and
any Director shall cease to be a Stockbold
to the amount of 10 shares, bis office aball t
vacant; and whenever any vacancy sha
happen anong the directors, from such or an
other cause, such vacancy ehall be filled f
the remainder of the year in which it eb
happen, by the Directors for the time bens
or a majority of them.
Sec. 16. The Directors elected, as sor
as may be after their election, ball proce
to choose by ballot, oue of their number
he the Pondent up

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 3 OF 6 =====

fur the residue of his term. They shall hi
proceed to hil the vacancy created ther
power to appoint a Cashier and all subo
nae officers of the said corporation, fix th
compensation, denne their powers, and P
scribe their duties: who shall give such bo
and in such penal sums, with such conditio
and with such securities as the Directors a!
prescribe, and hold their several offices d
ing the
pleasure of a majority of said
rectors.
Sec. 17. That a general meeting of
Stockholders sball be beld on the sec
Monday of June, 1836—and on the secc
Monday in June annually, thereafler, at
time and place of holding the election
Directors; and the Directors for the year i
mediately preceeding, shall present an ex
and particular statement of the state, con
tion, and affairs of said Bank; and the Sto
bolders present, shall have power to exam
into all matters connected th said Bas
its pecuniary concerns and general welfa
and to adopt such measures as shall app
to tem needful and proper, touching
management of said corporation and its
fects, as shall not be inconsistent with
provisions of this charter.
Sec. 18. The said corporation st
have power to receive on deposite, or borr
at such rate of interest as may be ogre
upon, any sum of money not exceeding
million of dollars, and the same to loan
bond and mortgage of unincumbered real
late, within this State; but no loan on su
real estate shall be made in aby case for mc
han one hail of the appraised value there
fora term of time not exceeding five yea
and no bigher rate of interest than ten
centum per annum.
Sec. 19. The said corporation shall r
commence business until two hundred a
ifty thousand dollars of the capital stoek sh
have been paid to said corporation in spec
and as soon as such payment shall have be
made; the said Directors shail notify t
Governor of this State, that they are rea
to commence business; and thereupon, !
said Governor shall appoint some suita
person or persons, to examine and count t
money paid in on account of said capi
stock, and then being actually in the vau
or possession of said corporation, whose d
ty it shall be, at the expense of said corpo
lion, to make such examination and ascerti
by the oath of the President and Cashier
the said corpuration, that the said capital
been, brama fide, paid in by the stockhold
of the said corporation, in payment of inst
ments under the regulations of this chart
and for no other purpose whatever, and ti
it has actually been received as part of s
capital stock, and thereupon, such persons
appuruled by the Governor, shall fortbw
make Jee return of such examination, a
the facts connected therewith, to the Go
ernor; and when the return shall be made
him, as aforesaid, that the said sum of t
hundred and fifty thousand dollars of
capital stock of the said corporation has be
paid in and actually exists in the vaults in p
session of said corporation, he shall cal
proclamation to be made of the same, wh
shall be published, at the expense
ol 1
said corporatioo, in at least four of the new
papers printed in this State; and on the fi
publication of such proclamation, it shall
lawful for the said corporation to commer
business, and not before.
Sec. 20. The Directors shall have po
er to require the stockholders, respective
to make payment of all sums of money
them subscribed and remaining unpaid,
such time and in such proportion as such l
rectors shall see fit, under the pain of
forfeiture of the ahare upon which such p
ments are requested, and all previous p
ments thereon, to the said corporation.
Sec. 21. The Directors shall give
tice of every such call by notice, to be p
lished at least once a week, for eight wel
successively, in two or more newspapers
this state, one of which shall be at the
of government of this state; which notice
to be published, shall be a sufficient call
such stockholders to authorize, in case of
fault to comply therewith, the forfeiture ab
provided.
Sec. 22. The obligations, contra
bills, potes, and other evidences of de
made or issued by the said corporation, sl
be obligatory on the said corporation, and
assignable and negotiable is like mannel
if made or issued by a private person;
those peyable to bearer by delivery;
every evidence of debt assigned by the
corporation by endorsement tbereon, al
enable the assignee thereof to masotain
action thereupon in his own name: but er
note, bill, or evidence of debt, purporting
be a bank note issued by the said corporati
sball be deemed and taken to be payabl
the banking house of the said corporati
unless otherwise specified on its face.
Sec. 23. It shall be lawful for the
corporation, and they are bereby autori
to demand and receive for all sume ol mo
loaned by them, the lollowing rates, o
On loans for sixty days or under, at the
of six per cent. per annum; on loans
six months and under twelve, eight per
tun per annum. Provided, That the in
est may be taken in advance and in so
dance with the practice of banking inst
tions.
Sec. 24. The said corporation ball
issue or have ia circulation at any tim
amount of notes or bills put in circulatio
mone exceedion twice and a halt its c

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 4 OF 6 =====

and discounts at any time exceed tbree time
the amount of stock, exclusive of the depo
sites as aforearid; and in case of excess, th
Directors under whose administration it aba!
bave happened, shall be liable in their natu
ral and private capacities.
Any Director o
Directors who may be absent when such ex
cess is created or contracted, or who may
have dissented from the act whereby th
same was created or contracted, may respec
tively exonerate themselves from being
liable, by entering his protest to the same or
the book of the minutes of the proceeding
of the said corporation.
Sec. 25 If at any time, the corporation
hereby created, shall neglect or refuse, fos
-
ten days after demand, at the banking house,
during the regular hours of business, to re-
se the a proportion, the co dorati
-
-
shall discontinue and close all its operations
of business, except the securing and collect-
,
ing debts due or to become due to the said
corporation, and the charter bereby granted
ball be forfeited.
Sec. 26. The said corporation ball be
liable to pay to the holders of every evidence
of debt made by it—the payment of which
sball have been demanded amı! refused dam-
ages for the non-payment thereof in lieu of
interest at and after the rate of ten per cen-
tum per annum, from the time of such refu-
sal until the payment of such evidence ol
debt and the damages thereon.
Sec. 27. The stock of the said corpo-
ration shall be assignable and transferable
according to such rules as shall be adopted,
in that behalf, by the bye-laws and ordiances
thereof.
Sec. 28. Whenever the one hundred
thousand dollars reserved in this charter to
be subscribed for by the State of Illinois,
aball have been, by virtue of law, subscrib-
ed for and the amount. thereof paid in by the
said State, the governor shall nominate, and
by and with the advice and consent of the
senate, appoint two Directors on the part of
the State, to represent her ia the said corpo-
ration, whose rights, howers and duties, shall
be, in all respects, the same as those of the
| Directors chosen by the stockholders.
Sec. 29. It shall be the duty of the
Directors of the said corporation to make
dividends half yearly or otherwise, of so
much of the surplus profite arising from the
business of the said corporation as they, or a
majority of them, shall deem advisable.
Sec. 30. The expenses incurred by
Commissioners in executing any duties re.
quired by this act, ball be paid out of mon-
eys received by them from the subacribera
out of the capital stock.
Sec. 31. The Legislature of this State
shall never pass any law retarding, obstruct-
ing, staying, protracting, or in any wise sus-
pending the collection of any debt or debla
due to said Bank.
SEC. 32. This act shalt be taken and
received by all Courte, and by all Judges
Magistrates, and other public officers, as s
public act, and shall be construed liberally
for all beneficial purposes therein intended;
and all printed copies of the same which shall
he printed by or under the authority of the
General Assembly, shall be admitted as good
evidence thereof without any further proof
whatever.
Sec. 33. All conveyances of real estales
shall be made and signed by the President
of this corporation, and shall have affixed to
-
said conveyance the seal thereof.
SEc 34. It shall not be lawful for thia
corporation, under
-
less denomication than fve dollar; and the
power is hereby reserved to the Legislature,
-
fifteen years after the passage of this act
-
should it be considered advisable, to further
restrict the corporation from suing any bank
bıll of a less denomipation than ten dollars.
Sec. 35. The stock in said bank shall
D
be considered as personal property, and may
be sold on execution, and transferred on the
booke of the Bank by the officer selling the
same, but in all cases be subject to a lien in
favor of the bank, for all debts, bonna fide,
-
or then owing and to become due, the same
from the owner.
Sec. 38. The said Bank shall pey iato
the State Treasury anually, on the frat day
of January, one ball per cent. on the aroun
of capital stock actually paid in by individ.
uals, in lieu of all taxes and imposition
whateoever: Provided, That if said Bank
shall abuse any of its corporate powers, by
interfering in any of the elections of thi
State, otber than that of its own oflicers, the
maid Bank and ita Branches ball forfeit it
charter, and cease to exist.
JAMES SEMPLE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
A. M. JENKINS,
Speaker of the Senate.
Approved, February 12, 1835:
JOSEPH DUNCAN.
We fnd the following sound and judiciou
remarke in the Baltimore Republican, an
it:
we cordially adopt tbem. As a mere mat
ter of policy, the whigs should koow, tha
all their attempte to carry the war of politic
-
into the affairs of private life, must result it
1-
bame and defeat. But they will neve
cam wisdom from experience.
CHARACTER The Chronicle of yester
day morning, commenced an attack upar
Col. Jobaoo, by way of insinsation, whic
ebows, perbaps, the character of the wat the
*-
in to be mared againat him. If the oppos

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 5 OF 6 =====

they are at liberty to adopt that course s
8000 as it ruits them. It was done in th
case of Mr. Jefferson, and the consequene
is known to the world. The song of Mr
John Quincy Adama, about Dusky Sally
was expected to prostrate the object alabi
reseutrent, bat instead of procuring the 1o
tended effect, it now staoda as a monumen
of reproach to ila author, which all the wa
ters of Letbe will never obliterate from thi
recollection of tbe public. + Our present ven
erable Chiet Magistrate passed through the
same fiery ordeal, and although it carried hi
wile to an untimely and premature grave
he passed throogh it unscathed; and while
he now appears before the country like gold
rehned and puribed, those who assailed him
are so thorougbly despised on account o
their conduct, tbat no one among them it
now willing to bear the imputation of hav
ing been concerned in the Vile business o
villlying him on accout of his lamily al-
faira.
And if Col. Johneon is to be perse.
cuted in the same way, the same consequen-
ces will most assuredly result from it.
It seems that Col. Johoson does not suit
the refined notions of our danny nubility, Mrs.
Fanny Kemble Butler's best society of our
country. The poor man's friend-the faith-
ful public servant—the patriot—who spilt
his blood and periled his life in defence of
the country—who saved the woman of the
west from the savage scalping knife, and the
brutality of the British soldiery —the candi-
date of the people's choice, does not come
up to their rotis
of what a Vice Presi-
dent should sc.
He is not one of the mock
nobility of the land. Be it so. The nom-
ination was not made to please them; and if
they bad been pleased with it, we should
have doubted, at least, the propriety of the
election. If they will only tell us that
hey would prefer any other man for the Vice
Presidency, it will be the very best recom-
mendation of him that they can give, and
we shall feel the most perfect confidence of
nis success by a very large majority. Their
hatred and vituperation are perfectly barm-
ess, but their praises would be as fatal as the
atmosphere of the Bohan Upas tree.
MELANCHOLY OCCURRENCK.—-We la-
ment to atate that an accident of a most dis-
tressing nature occurred at West Point on
Monday last, the circumstance of which were
as follows: Two of the cadets, during the
recess of study, commenced amusing them-
selves by fencing unmasked, and with foils
which were unfortunately without buttous
at the end. In the course of a few passes,
one of the young gentlemen, a Mr. Carter
from Virginia, received the point of his an-
tagonist'e weapon in the eye, passing through
that organ deep into the brain. The unfor-
tunate youth instantly fell, deprived of sense
and motion, and remained in that condition
nine hours, at the end of which period, not-
withstanding the most prompt and efficient
medical aid, he expued. Our informant
states that the wound which was in the un-
der part of the eye, had merely the appear-
ance of a small scratch, and bled very little.
The young gentleman who unhappily caused
the accident, has been almost bereft of reason
ever since—be is the son of a distinguished
officer of our navy. A aingular fatality seems
to attend the family of Mr. Carter. This
is the third of his sons who have died vio-
lent deaths. The elder was killed in a duel,
the second came to his death by aceident,
and the fate of the third is recounted in the
above statement.-LN. Y. Cour. & Enq.
AUBURN AND OWASCO CANAL CON-
PANY.— At a meeting of the Auburn and
Owasco Canal Company, on the first day of
June instant, the following persons were
elected directors of said company for the
ensuing yea:
Henry Polhemus, Elijah Miller, Amos
Underwood, Wm. H. Seward, John M.
Sherwood,
Neison Beardaley, George H.
Wood, and Nehemiab D. Carbart of Au-
burn, and Henry Yates of the city of New-
York. And subsequently at a meeting o
the board of directors, JoHn M. SHERWOOD
was elected president, Gro H. WooD Sec-
retary, and NeLsoN BEARDsLEY treasures
of the board.
EMIGRATION -How many "clever" peo
ple think that a new country atiords no
amusement. The idea is-a log house-a
"wooden chimney"-hog and hominy-for-
ests and trees-lean cattle, and no reward
for labor. They never thiok there is a bright
side to the picture. The man who raises
his necessary crope, stays at bome from en-
ticing allurements-keeps a little "library ol
useful knowledge"—who gatbere bis friends,
bis children, his neighbors aroand a fre light
of wood, who owes nothing at the atore in
town," and does not wish to borrow money,
is indeed a Nabob. They may talk of car-
peta, and damask curtains, of masave plate,
nyate carriages, and servants in livery,
ut it amounts to nothing.
heart of a man centers he is the happiest.
It may be in the new townebip where the
wild game yields him amusement and sup
ort. The deer may feed from the crib o
his stock-but he beede not the storm, soc
sunabine is refreebing, wheo the fatigue o
honest industry is overcome by a sweet te
There is not really much differense in the
people of i city of town thick-settles
State, or a spee settled Territory. Hu
man nature i bemsa nature still. It is so

===== ISSUE PAGE 1 / PDF PAGE 29 / COLUMN 6 OF 6 =====

friends and enemier-pretty girls who are
he don natures here will be
fond of gay coquetry —old matrons ready to
ive good advice-business men eager for
-speculators watching for prey-gam-
blers pretending want of employment-
horse jackies with horses for sale, "not over
five years old"-lawyers ever willing to
"prevent litigation"-clergymen dogmatical
and exclusive-doctors complaining of "aw-
fol healthy Limes," and Editors in want of
news. -Jacksonville Courier.
NAPOLEON AND THE INDEMNITT. —Con-
siderable sensation was produced in the
French Chamber of deputies, in the course
of the late debate on the American indemni-
ty, by the President producing and reading
the original memorial of our minister to Na-
poleon, (then hrst consul,) and his order
thereon. It ran as follows: *1 request the
citizen Talleyrand to make a report of the
two subjects contained in this note, and es-
pecially on the first, (American claim.) —
There is no question of a want of ability to
pay: I7 WE oWE, WE MUST PAY!"
ANOTHER EARTHQUAKE.— An arrival
at Baltimore froin Valperaiso, brings intel-
ligence that the interesting Island of Juan
Feruandez has been destroved by an earth-
quake. The town was situated in a valley,
and on the first alarm, the inhabitants fed to
the mountains. Tie sea at frat recered
rom the Island, and then returned, overflow-
ed the town, and in its return swept away
the houses which had bec previously pros-
trated, leaving on the site an innese inass
of black mud.
FARMERS.— We repeat our remark, that
armers are the main pillars of democratic
principles. The bone and muscle of the
Den the independent neces
proof of this in Virginia. The elections
bere are going well. In the low countries,
the eountry of merchants and great planters,
the votes were not favorable; but the yeo-
manry of the interior and the highlands re-
deem the State.
Among the inventions and improvemente
of the day, is "India Rubber Bread." The
The modua operandi is thus described by the
inventor. *It is only by the opposition o l
certain alkalis, the astringent qualities of the
caoutchou are reduced to a nutritive pabu-
lum, which, mixed with a moderate portion
of browa sugar and baked in an oven hea-
ted to the common baking standard, maken
most excellent and agreeable bread."
a matter of course, it is proposed at once to
organize. "The Caoutchoue Bread Com-
pany," to supply a hungry population with
pdia rubber rolls for breakfast, and India
rubber tea cakes!
ROMAN COINS.—A Flemish peasant in
the commune of Wierde in Belgium, while
recertly making draina upon his lands at a
place called Truneron, discerned a quantity
of ancient coin, to the number of 560, of
dates anterior to Constantine. The spot was
formerly the site of a lake.
Marten, in his bistory of the British Col-
onies, relates an anecdote of an Indian,
which creates a smile; he complained to a
landlord that his price for liquor was too high.
The landlord attempted to justify his charge
by saying that it was an expensive to keep
a hogshead of rum as a milch cow. The
Indian humerously replied, "may be it drinke
as much water,
" alluding to adulteration,
"but certain be no eat as much bay."
Temper.— We wish we could get out of
temper for once in our lives, for we should like
to know how a man feels when he is mad.-
We have frequently seen men an angry thet
they could'nt help themselvee, but we could
never formany opinion of their feelinge. The
nearest we ever came to getting out of ten-
per was when a fellow sesaced our eoup with
snuff, and all we did ther was to throw bim
out of a second story window upon the roof of
a shed below.- Boston Poal.
Enthusicam of an In tial The anrient daye
was such a lavorite with Blake, that three days
before his death, he sat bolstered up in bed,
und tinted with his choicest colore and in his
happiest style. He touched and retouched it
-beld it at amie length, and then threw it
from him, exclaiming,
There! That will do,
I cannot mend it."
He sew his wife in tears.
will draw your portrait, for you have been an
angel to me; she obeyed, and the dying artist
made a fine likeprse.— Lives of the Artists.
A JACK TAR's ILLUSTRATION. -Dur-
ing the frat "panse" concerning our relations
with Fraace, the following dialogue took
place on long whart:—
Landlord —Jack, how would you like a
chance in a privateer?
Jack-l'd nooser run my risk in fae
State service; for baring prise money on
board a privateer is like throwing soup thro
• ladder-what the slata catch, tbe sailors
get.— Boston Peet.
The editor of the lee Clone Tole
Inquirer, says be bad the an
*to utterly dierrange and knook into a
of most beautiful co
option? the types of
outride, whereby, *fire colamns of the s
romantie adrerti
¡sementa" were rendecad
want worse then weeke

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 1 OF 6 =====

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDENGS
ĐF THE COMMIGSIONERS OF TH
BANK.
Swingh
, May 11. 1835.
At a meeting of the Commissioners appoi
ter sa procure subacriptions for the capit
stock of the State Bank of Illinois, held:
purenance of a resolution at their meeting o
she 12th day ol February, 1852.
Present, John Tillson, jr. R. K. Melang)
Jin, A. G. B. Wight, Edward Pierson, Job
Taylor, Samuel C. Christie, Edward Robert
Benjamin Godfrey, Thos. Mather, Wm. Lin
W. S. Gilman, Charles Prentice, R. I. Han
ilton, A I. Buckner, Wm. F. Thenton Corr
mienioners.
On motion R. K. SieLaughim was chose
President of the Board, and N. H. Ridgel
James T. B. Stapp, were appointed Secrets
ries.
On motion of Mr. Mather, No. 1, Rrenlte
That a committee of one gentleman from esc
of the places where subscriptions have bee
received, be appointed to examine the book
of subscriptions and report the amount of stoc
subseriber-the ameunt and kind of money
received: the places of residence of subser
hers and such other information as they ma
deem useful tothe board, and that all the book
received be teferred to said committee.
Whereupon the following committee wer
appointed, viz:
Thom. Mather for Belleville, John Tilino
jr. for Jacksonville, John Taylor for Spring
feld, Beni. Godfrey for Alton, Charles Pren
tice for Vandalia, A. G. 8. Wight for Ge
lena, R. I. Hamilton for Chicago, and Edwar
Pierson for Quiney.
On motion of Mr. Tillison, the board ad
jourued until So'clock, o'clock, P.M.
3 o'clock, P.M.
The Board of Commissioners met pursuen
to adjournment.
Mr. Mather chairman of the committe
appointed to examine the subscription booke
made a report with accompanying ducumente
No. 2, which on motio was laid on the ta
Mr. Hamilton submitted the following re
solution, viz:
No. 2 Resolved, That it in expedient fo
the board of commissioners, to ascertain a
far as they can the amount of sulscription
of the capital stock of the State Bank of I!
linois, subseribed for by resident citizene fo
and on account of non-residents.
Which wasordered to be laid on the table
On motion of Mr. Mather,
Resolved, That a select committee be ap
pointed to take into consideration the pro
priety of the commissioners paying out of thi
Junda received, the expenses incurred by then
respectively, with all other expenses attend
ing said commission; and that the accoun
already presented be referred to said commit
tee.
Whereupon the Chair appointed, Meer
Prentice, Tillon and Hamilton seid eommi
toe.
On motion of Mr. Mather, the board ed
journed until to-morrow moreing, 9 o'cloc
TuesDaT, 12th May.
The Board met pursuant to adjournmen!
On motion of Mr. Hamilton, the resolu
tion No. 2, ollered by him yesterday wa
taken up and the questiop being taken bi
Ayer and Nays; was decided in the nega
tire.
Those who voted in the affirmative are
Messe McLaughlin, Taylor, Christie
Linn, Prentice, Hamilton and Thornton:-
Those who voted in the negative are
Messra. Tillson, Wight, Pierson, Roberts,
Godfrey, Mather, Gillman and Buckner:-8
Mr. Thornton mored the following reso-
lution, (No. 4.)
Resolced, That in the opinion of the board
of the $6,732,600, now subacribed on the
books of the State
Bank of Illinois; not
more than the capital autborized by the char-
ter is the property bena fide of the citizens
of the state; and consequently that all the
excess of subscriptions is the
Bon-epilente nutwistanding if may have
been subscribed in the name of residents.
Resoleed, that the commissioners possesses
the power of ascertaining who are, and who
are not resident subscribers, and that said
commissioners are bound to exercise that
power for the protection of the chartered
rights of the citizens of the State of Illi-
ROIl.
A division of the question being called for.
the vote on the first resolution was taken and
decided in the negative.
Those who voled in the afirmative are,
Mesers. McLaughlin, Wight, Taylor,
Lino, Prentice, Hamilton and Thornton:-7.
Those who roted in the negative are,
Messrs. Tillson, Pierson, Christie, Rob-
erts, Godfrey, Mather, Gillman and Buck-
per:—8.
Ibe question was then taken upon the
passage of the second resolution and was de.
aided in the affirmative unanimously.
Mr. Linn moved the adoption of the fol-
owing resolution. (No. 5.)
Resolved, That the commissioners present
ho superintended the taking of subscrip-
sons at the several places in toe state, stale
pon their responsibility, who they believe
o be bona fide citizen subacribers, and who
• not, and what amount they believe to be
he property of the citizen subscriber, and
what they believe to be the property of non-
esident subacribers, which was decided in
be negative.
Mr. Gillman submitted the following reso-
ation (No. 6.)
Resolned, That in accordance with the
Oth section of the charter that the aubscrip-
ions made in the name of foreigners be now
hat bal donetice baciplot over ten shared
ach, be reduced to that number.
Which was ordered to be laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. Prentice the board ad-
burned until 2 o'clock, P.M.
2 o'clock, P.M.
The board met pursuant to adjournment.
Op motion the report of Mr. Mather No.
• was taken up and adopted.

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 2 OF 6 =====

plan for an apportionment of the sick or i
Bank.
Whereupon the following committee we
appointed, viz:
Mesars. Mather, Buckner, Gillman, Ta
lor, Prentice, Wight, Hamilton and Pierso
On motion the board adjourned until t
morrow morning, 8 o'clock.
WEDnesDAY, 13th May, 1835.
The
met pursuant to adjournment
Presc
me members as yesterda
Mr. T
bmitted the following res
lutions:
1st. Resoleed, That it is the duty of ev
ry commissioner of this board to adhere to th
spirit and intention of the act under whic
they hase been appointed commissioner
with the same solemn intention to perfor
the duties devolved upon him by the ac
with a scrupulous regard to the rights of a
according to the provisions of the charter,
il he had been required to have taken a
oath dely to observe the law under whic
be has been appointed.
2d. Resolved, That the act having e
pressly given in the subscription to stock i
thie bank, an unequivocal right of preferenc
in the stock to the actual resident, who is
bona fide suhacriber on his own accoun
over the individual who is a nos resident. |
is therefore the right as it is the duty of th
commissioners to ascertain by all legal an
proper means, what stock has been subscrib
ed for the use of the resident citizen, an
what has been subscribed in the name
others, who are now-residents whether al
tempted to be covered under the names c
resident citizens or not, for the use of suc
non residents.
3d. Resolced, That every subscriber shal
have the right of establishing by evidence be
fore the board that the stock subecribed in hi
own name, was subscribed bon fide for hi
own use, and that be ball be exempt fron
scaling unless there be an excess of subscrip
tione of stock, bona fide for the benefit c
citizene of this state, of stock of a simila
kind subecribed, and then such acaling sha
he according to the provisions of the lav
after non-residents stock is thrown off:
4th. Resolved, That this board will pro
ceed to receive any evidence under oath o
of other satistactory character, whether th
subscriptions have been made in the name
of resident citizens not bona fide for the us
of such persons, but in trust for others wh
are non-resident citizens.
5tb. Resolved, That in case of the ab
scene of the real owners of resident stoc
proof offered by his agent attorney or friend
shall be received.
bib. Resolted, That in case subscription
have been made in the names of resident ci
tizens for the benefit of actual resident citi
sens, such stock may be consolidated in th
name of the real owner, and shall not b
subject to be scaled, except accerding to th
provisions of the second resolution.
7th. Resolved, That in all casce wher
stock has been subscribed by virtue of an
authority given to another person to subscrib
such stock, the power under which suc
stock shall have been subscribed, shall b
produced and deposited with the secretarie
of the board.
A division of the question being calle
for, the vote was taken on the first resolu-
tion, and wes unanimously carried. *
The vote was then taken on the secon
resolution, and decided in the affirmative.
Those who voted in the affirmative are,
Messre. Christie, Hamilton, Linn, Mc-
Laughlin, Pierson, Prentice, Roberts, Tay-
lor, and Thornton, 9.
Those who voted in the negative are,
Messrs. Buckner, Gillman, Godfrey,
Mather, Tillson and Wight, 6.
The vote was then taken on the third re-
solution, and decided in the affirmative.
Those who voted in the affirmative are,
Ments. Cbristie, Hamilton, Linn, Mc-
Laughlin, Pierson, Prentice, Roberta, Tay-
or and Thornton, 9.
Those who voted in the negative are,
Ments. Buckner, Gillman, Godfrey, Ma-
ber, Tillson and Wight, 6.
The question was then taken on the
fourth. resolution, and decided in the nega-
live.
Those who voted in the affirmative are,
Mess. Hamilton, Linn, Prentice, Tay-
or and Thornton, 5.
Those who voted in the negative are
Messrs. Buckner, Christie, Gillman, God-
rey, McLaughlin, Mather, Pierson, Rob-
rts, Tillson and Wight, 10.
The question was then taken on the pas-
age of the fith resolution, and decided in
he negative.
Those who voted in the affirmative are,
Messrs. Hamilton, Linn, McLaughlin,
Pierson, Prentice, Taylor aod Thornton, 7.
Those who voted in the negative are,
Messrs. Buckner, Christie, Gillman, God-
rey, Mather, Roberts, Tillson and Wight,8.
On motion,
The 6th and 7th resolutiona were laid on
he table..
On motion of Mr. Buckner, it was
Resolved, That the subscription booke re-
arned by the several Commissioners appoint-
d to open the same, and receive eubscrip
ons to the stock of the State Bank of 1ll-
ois, contain the only evidence in relation
the ownership of stock, that this board
ave a right to call for, and afford the only
riterion for the distribution of the stock of
aid Bank.
Those who voted in the affirmative are,
Miesars. Buckner, Christie, Godfrey, Gill-
an, Mather, Roberts, Tillaon and Wight,8.
Those who voted in the negative are,
Mears. Hamilton, Lion, MeLaugh 3,
ierson, Prentice, Taylor and Tborntoo, 7.
On motion of Mr. Gillman.
Resoleed, That a committee of one from
ach point at which books for subscriptions to
e State Bank of Hinois have been opened,
• appointed to examine said books, and
rike team there

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 3 OF 6 =====

cent, then from all equally, anu ine amou
does not exceed $1,400,000. Whereap
the following Committee were appoint
Hamilton, Wight, Thornton, Gillma
Mather, Tillson, Taylor and Pearson
On motion,
The board adjourned until to-morr
moraing, 8 o'clock.
THURsDAY 14th, May, 1835.
The board met pursuant to adjournment
Present the same commissioners asy
terday.
The Committee appointed to apportion t
stock between the several places where su
scriptions were taken, made their rep
with the accompanying document (No.:
which was concurred in.
On motion of Mr. Lion,
Resolved, That the commissioners ho
an election of directors of the State Bal
of Illinois, to morrow morning at 8 o'cloc
A. M., and that notice be given by t
chairman, of the time and place of holdi
such election.
On motion of Mr. Hamilton,
Resolved, That the committee appoint
to apportion the stock of the State Bank
Illinois be appointed to take charae of t
subscription Books, and deliver the same
the Directors after the election shall ha
taken place
On motion of Mr. Tillson,
Resolved, That each commissioner ha
in to the committee on contingent expense
a statement of all expenses incurred by hi
as a Commissioner.
On motion,
Resolved, That the per diem compens
tion to be allowed the commissioners for the
services be referred to the Directors of ti
principal bank when elected.
On mation the board adjourned until tu
o'clock, P. M.
2 o'clock, P.M.
The board met pursuant to adjournment
Mr. Prentice from the committee on cot
tingent expenses, made a report in relatic
to the expenses incurred by the commission
ers sppointed to receive subscriptions; whic
report was concurred in.
On motion of Mr. Gillman,
1. Resolted, That the commissioners wl
have received subscriptions for stock of th
State Bank of Illinois, pay to the presides
and directors as soon as they are elected, th
amouot of the first instalment, on the share
apportioned to each point.
2. Resolved, That the excess received b
the commissioners at the different poin
where subscription books have been opene
be by them returned to the subscribers f
stock as soon as called for and receipte b
taken on return of such excess particularizin
the number of names of subscribers, an
•mount returned to each, and the receipts b
hled by the Commissioners with the Presi
dent and directors of the State Bank of Illi
nois on or before the 10th day of July nex
and shoul! any excess on the date aforesai
still remain in the bands of the commissioner
the same ball be by them paid over to th
President and directors of the bank aforesaid
or the president and directors of either of it
branches, with a statement for whose ac
count such excess may be.
On motion of Mr. Mather,
The Committee appointed to apportion th
stock, were discharged from the further con
sideration of the subject.
On motion,
The buard adjourned until to-morron
morning 8 o'clock.
FRIDAy, 15th May, 1835.
The board met pursuant to adjourninent.
Mr. Mather from the committee appointer
to assign the proportion of stock to the differ
ent subscribers, reported that they had dis
charged that duty, and had marked on eact
subscription book in red ink, opposite the
name of each subscription, the number o
shares to which the said subscriber is entitled.
and that the books be banded over to the
directors.
On motion of Mr. Thornton,
A committee of two were
appointed to
assist the secretary in the examination of the
ballots during the election of directors.
Messrs. Thornton and Lino, were appoint-
ed said committee.
On motion of Mr. Mather,
Resolved, That the board now open the
alls for the election of directors
The Commissioners then proceeded to re-
eive ballots for the election of nine directors
f the State Bank of Illinois.
On motion of Mr. Thornton,
Resoled, That a committee of five be
ppointed to ascertain the number of rotes
iven for directors, and to whom given.
. Messrs. Thornton, Linn, Roberts, Chris-
ie and Tilleon, were appointed said commit-
Mr. Linn of said committee, reported that
hey bad performed the duties assigned them
nd upon examination of the ballots for di-
ectors, find that the following persons have
cen duly elected Directors of the State
ank of Illinois, viz:
Thomas Mather, John Tillson jr., A. H.
uckner, Wm. T. Thornton, David Prick-
1, Thomas Houghau, Elijah lles, Win-.
rop S. Gillman and John Taylor, they
aving received the largest number of votes.
On motion of Mr. Thornton,
Resoleed, That a committee of three be
pointed to ascertain and report whether the
ersons reported as elected directors, were
aly qualifed at the time of their election.
Mesers. Hamilton, Piereon and Lino, were
pointed said committee.
Mr. Hamilion of said committee, reported
at they bad diacbarged that duty, and re-
mmended the adoption of the following re-
lution:—
Resolved, Tbat Thomas Mather, John
illeon, ir. John Taylor. Winthmn

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 4 OF 6 =====

Which was adopted.
The Board adjourned until to-morrow
o'clock.
SaTUrDAY, 16th May, 1835
The Board met pursuant to adjournm
On motion of Mr. Prentice,
Resolved, That the report of the comr
tee on contingent expenses together will
other documents and papere with the jour
of the proceedings of the commissioners,
handed over by the Secretaries to the Bo
of Directors.
The following communication was recei
from Mr. Iles, a director.
GENTLEMEN:- have been appointe
committee to inform you that the Direc
elected on the 15th inst., under the act e
tled, "An Act to incorporate the State B
of Illinois," have met and organized,
electing Thomas Mather President of t
Board, and that the Board will receive fi
the Commissioners this day the amoun
subscription by then received.
ELIJAH ILES
On motion of r. Prentice,
Resoleed, That a copy of the journa
proceedings of this board be furnished
publicatioo.
On motion of Mr. Thornton,
Resoleed, That the thanks of this me
ing he presented to the chairman of
meeting, for the able and dignified man
in which he has presided over their delibe
tions.
On motion of bir. Mather,
The Board of Commissioners adjour
sine die.
R. K. MeLAUGHLIN, Chairman
JAMES T. B STAPP,
N. H. RIDGELY,
Secretaries.
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT
CHICAGO, JUNE 24, 1835.
FOR PRESIDENT,
MARTIN VAN BUREN
OF NEW-YORK.
FOR VICE-PRES DENT.
RICH'D. M. JOHNSON,
OF KENTUCKY.
DEMOCRATIC MEETING.
The Democratic citizens of Chicago, a
friends of the nominations of the Baltim
Convention, are requested to meet at the "E
GLE COFFEE HOUSE," (TRowBrIDor'®)
MONDAY EVENING next, at Ec o'clc
precisely, to select delegates to attend the Cou
ty Convention, at Vials, on the 4th day of •
ly, and to transact such other businens as in
properiy come before them.
By Order of the Toten Committee.
Jane 24.
JOSEPH DUNCAN.
The gontleman whose same is placed abor
and who is, for the time being, Governor
this young and flourishing State, passed thi
our town a fow days since, on his way to Mic
igan City. We have too long neglected to c
public attention to his character and mansg
ment as a public officer, and his character as
man, so far as the latter is connected with t
former, —and to present him in his true lig
before the people of the State. Who then, at
what is Joseph Duncan Possessing talente ce
tainly not abore mediocrity, he was elected
Congress as a friend of the people—s a den
ocrat in principle, and in practice. He m
then, if our information be correct, poor in a pi
cuniary view. His circumstances in this re
pect change, and we find him of a sudden ti
Send of the United States Bank, and acting wit
the aristocracy of the nation. He could n
bear prosperity. Grown wealthy through th
offices which the people had bestowed upo
him, or through speculations, the means
which he derived from those oflices, he has be
come the enemy of the people from whom h
received the means of his wealth,—of the prir
eiples which brought him into notice, and whic
he was elected to support. And he is now u
ing the influence derived from those offices,an
his wealth, to destroy those principles. Suc
was his attitude when he came before the pec
ple for the office of Governor; Yet the rumor
of his defection and treachery to the party, an
the principles to which he had been attached
was not generally credited by the great body
the people, for the people of the west are slos
to believe in the treachery of those in whon
they have once placed confidence. Amon
those to whom his defection and treachery ha
become well known, tbere was no concert o
action. The first publie indication which b
gave that he had gone over to the opposition
was after his election as Governor, at a publi
dinner in New-Jersey, where he mouthed, ove
his wine cups. as a sentiment, some of the stal
ederal slang about the dictation of the White
House." An indication which was hailed by
is new allies throughout the country, as evi
lence that the people of Illinois were opposed
o the administration. And this, too, although
t was well known that Duncan's friends assur-
d the people, pending his election, that he was
friend of the administration. The people of
ho Atlantic States may learn the political
baracter of the Western States much better
rom the declarations nf men when candidates
or office, before the people, then after their e.
ction. To the sasurances which his friends
avo the people that he was a Jackaon man-
a want of concert among those to whom hie
olitical treachery was known,-and to some
ther, politically, accidental causer, in Joseph
uncan indebted for his election as Governor of
linois. And yet we are told that he has the
anity to suppose that his election was owing
his great popularity and superior abilities!
bere were very few in the state who were
erfectly satisfiod that he would oppose the
resent administration: and yet afer holding
melf in this attitude until afler the election,
had the effrontery ta sey, upon his return to
e state, that had be been here prior to the a

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 5 OF 6 =====

cold apon the most important measures,
8
regards the character, welfare and prosp
of the state—s one breath or the other
affect his own personal gains. —In that car
should have been spared the unpleasant du
exposing his devious course, and howing
people how their interests have been lite
traficked away, by a man who obtained the
ative chair by deception and by accident.
Duncan and his friends know this, and th
sertion that, had he been here, he would
made the issue before the people, between
self and the present administration, is inte
in part to make the people believe that he
no hand in the deception which was prac
upon them in his election. An issue bet
Joseph Duncan and the present administr
in the State of Illinois! A more ridiculous
never entered the head of a man who had gr
wealthy someho of a rudden-and got int
important oflice by accident. In our next
per we shall endeavor to unravel his exce
cy's course upon the Canal question.
Mr. Secrelary FIELD.
We gave this gentleman a gentle hint,
weeks since that we were in want of the ac
the last Legislature, enlarging the powe
the corporation of this town. The act is
yet received. It was ordered several mo
since by the corporation, and war also wri
for by several of our most respectable ciliz
-
We believe there is but one sentiment in
community as it regards this secretaryship,
that is, that the incumbrance ought to be r
ved from the office by the most summary
If this cannot by any means be accomplis
the office should be abolished, for it is squar
ing the people's money to pays man for di
which he does not perform. We hear fron
papers that the secretary is about maki
stump speech tour through Bangamon cou
to sustain a deserter from the Democratic p:
He is probably too much ongaged in prepa
speeches for Shis occasion, to attend to the
ties of his clice.
OTIO AND MICHIGAN.
The Legisiature of Ohio were to have me
the eighth inst., an in to be inferred, to act u
matters connected with the boundary dis
between that State and Michigan. In viev
this session of the Lemislature of Ohio,
Delegates of Michigan, now assembled in
vention, have unanimourly adopted an es
1
dingly temperste appeal to the people of
United States," and passed a Resolution dec
ing that if Ohio would abstain from the e
cise of any other act of jurisdiction, within
orifinal limits of Michigan, she should be
losed to run out her line without obstruct
The appeal of Michigan, taken as a whole
just what it should be.
It commends itali
the good sense and patriotism of the people
our country, to whom it is addressed, and e
mt fail to exercise ita due influence orer
pople of Ohio. We regret that its length
nit admit of our laying it before our readen
fill at present. In Ohio, aleo, a more desira
state of feeling appears to prevail. We tr
that this state of things way continue, and t
we may hear no more on the part of either g
ernment, of an apoeal to brute furce, to sc
the question of right and equity between the
This method of settling territorial diaputes,
neariy become absolete in the oid world. It
one of those relics of a state of barbariem wh
are fast disappearing before the increased li
and intelligenee ot the present age. How
scenly then is it that neighboring membere
this great confederacy of free States and f
men, bound together by so many ties of sym
thy and of interest, should think for a mom
of settling a question of boundary by an app
to arme!
CHOLERA.
As there are so many rumors flying about t
country of the existence of the cholera in ra
sections of the State, we have thought it mig
be proper to allude to the subject, and lay su
information as we possese before our reade
We have a Springfeld paper of the 13th ins
which describes the state of health in that pla
and vicinity, as distressing to Physicians. T
Alton Spectator of the 11th, which states th
for the last tee iceeks there has been about twe
ty deathe in that town of cholera-and that
majority of casee recover. At Galma, it h
been rumored that thie disease prevailed to i
alarming extent, but the Galenian of the 16
inst. makes no mention of the existence of at
disense there. We have also heard of the exi
tence of the cholere at Ottawa, bat have be
unable to trace the information to any sutbe
tic source. Our own Town, Chicago, is •
commonly healthy, and we assure our frien
abroad, that if the cholera, or any other epider
ical or pestilentini disease makes its appearan
bere, we will promptly publish all the fac
which we may be able to obtain.
STATE BANK OF ILLINOIS.
We publish to day the charter of the Stat
Bank, and also the journal of the proceedings ‹
of the commissioners. Wo are aware our pape
is rather encumbered by so doing, but as man
of our readers may be desirous to have the cha
ter and proceedings of the commissioners fo
reference, we have thought it preferable to giv
them together. Our readers will the hare a
opportunity of judging for themselves whethe
the commissioners acted in accordance with th
Law.
JUDGE WHITE.
If there be any: truth in the old adage
hat " a man is known by the company hi
(eeps," then there can no longer be a doub
bat Judge White bas proved recreant to
remocratic principles, practices, and the par-
y to which he bas until recently been a firm
nember. A large portion of the opposition
arty every where but at the North, led on
y their champione Duff Green and Col.

===== ISSUE PAGE 2 / PDF PAGE 30 / COLUMN 6 OF 6 =====

calluluate for the Presidency, without beir
nominated in manner prescribed by the al-
most unanimous voice of the democratie
party throughout the Union, inraded the
rights and privileges of those whom it w
political death to offend, and in effect bolted
from the democratic party and throw bimself
upon the tender mercies of his enemies
-
That one act, so important in its conse.
quences, is enough in our view of the cas,
DY.
to alienate the regard and sympathy of ba
18-
old friends and the republican party, withes:
Te
hope of reconciliation or favor. It would be
-
singular indeed, to witness the confirmation
of a nomination made with a view to fore
stall public opinion, by some twenty of bay
men; and more strange still, to ste a de.
mocratic convention select as a candidale for
the Presidency, a man so high in fator with
the federal party, as the gentlemao whoe
name heads this arlicle.
Facts are coming to light, which may tes.
1-
der it matter of rejnicing to the demonic
en-
party, that Judge White was prematately
nominated. A dark cloud has rested one:
the movements and conduct of several nd.
viduals, securely reposing in the bosome of
the party, and filling high stations, wie
when fully penetrated, may present a spec
tacle of intrigue, contrivance and double
dealing, worthy the ingenuity of uprico-
pled demagogues [and political gamblee
The Globe implicates Mr. Speaker Bell,
18.
as the prime moser in White's nominatics,
to fulfil promises made to both parties, to
secure his own election as Speaker, after the
10-
resignation of Mr. Stephenson. All vE
.
recollect that the federal party claimed Mr.
ed,
Bell as at least one half their man. h
er-
seems they spoke not without asserace;
and in this manner Mr. Bell has fulfilled la
promises to both parties.— Eastcr (Bas-
gor, Me.) Republican.
.
TWENTY-FOURTH CONGRESS.
In copying the following statement, foes
-
the Journal of Commerce, of the Hoose of
Representatives of the twenty-fourth Co-
gress, as now constituted, so far as the ele
tions have yet taken place, we meter pe-
mise, that as the Journal of Commence na
whig paper, it is not liable to the supcion
of having overstated the adminatalis pin.
The House of Representatives the 246
Congress, as now constituted, i. e. stares
the elections have set taken place, is dinisl
n-
politically as follows:
0-
nti-Jackson.
10
Louisiana,
Jackson.
Doubtial
2
1
Illinois,
0
3
r•
Vermont,
5
0
18
Maine,
2
Georgia,
8*
S. Carolina,
New-Jersey, 0
6
Peonsylvania,11
17
Ohio,
10
9
1-
New-York,
9
31
Massachusette, 11
11
Delaware,
1
N.Hampshire 0
Connecticut,
0
5
0
Virginia,
16
-
63
110
63
Jackson majority,
47
From the same disticts in the la la
gresss, were 86 whigs and 85 Jacket art
Jackson majority 2; Jackson gain io be le
Congress, thus far, as compared nabe
23d, 45.
* One vacancy occasioned by the Pl
signation of Judge Wayne.— Globe.
A bunicane recently visited Toledo in so
sudden and violent a manner, that the frase
of a block of five stores, 100 feet in lengi
by 60 deep, erected by Walbridge and Bs-
seil, was prostrated, giving the wortnes
upon it barely time to escape. Lom $.ho.
-Detroit Free I'ress.
Steamboat Explosion. —The Cincinali
Republican mentions the explosion of the
Majestic, while shoving off from the whart
at Memphis, " producing a most melanciay
loss of life and limbs. About ou pense
were scalded, a large portion of them mor
tally, and nearly all of them dangeronaig.
The cabin passengers escaped injury.
India Rubber Manufactaring Companic
-There are six Indian Robber manufactur
ing companies chattered by the legisature
of Massachusetts. The Roxbury with pos
cr to hold one hundred thousand dollars
worth of real and two hundred thousand of
personal rstate, tive Boston and Lynn-resi
estate fifty thousand, personal one busted
and filty thousand. The Boston, resi esa
twenty thousand, personal estate eigity
thousand—the New England, real estate
twenty thousand, personal, fily thousand
the South Boston, real estate timenty lads
sand, personal estate thirty thousand, and
the Suffolk, real estate fifly thousand, 3od
personal estate one hundred thousand. Tha
is but the beginning of this kind of manufac
turing.
Consolation.--While General Greene,
of Rhode-Island, was independent of all
parties, he had a capital krack of soothing t
disappointment of beaten candidates, and or
such occasions used to tell a favorite story,
in a style of inimitable humor which erety
body to the less of office. We can gire
nothing of its spirit—-merely the outline A
field slave in the south, to whom meat was
a rare blessing, one day found in his trap *
He took him out alive,
held him under his arm, patting him and be
Hump rabbit.
gan to speculate on his qualities
"D borr
fat! berry fat! the fattest I ebber did see!
Let's see how I cook him. I roast him No
be so fat lose all he grease. I ty bim. At,

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 1 OF 6 =====

pommoning all his philosophy, he thus addres-at their
Inew there war an end of the matter,
and days, du
sed the rabbit slaking his fist at him all the
about a
time-"You long-eared, white whiskered,
ing som
meered and of be, you no so berry fat
servatio
arter all noder!"-Bost. Free Press.
mission.
Then
more de
We hare been politely favored with the
try, tha
cebAus of Roshrille, by J. G. RANDALL
belong,
who bar been engaged in taking it this week.
peace al
The following is a correct statement:
from th
Whole popalation, 1,000 souls; of which
with sor
647 are males, and 353 females. In 1S31
tains m
there were about 180 souls in the Town. In
research
the the space of four years our village has
terprisin
tion fror
bait up, rivaling in beauts, in morality and
intelligence of her citizens, towns of twenty
ARIST
year growth in older states. —Journal.
the Eng
the pen
portrait,
It was rumored here on Thursday mor-
we are bi
ning last, that a case of cholera had occured
and we
in this place; which, we are happy to state
plicable
turned oct to be a slight case of cholera mor-
specimer
bas The health of our town and vicinity is
every ob
cnoually good.—l6.
"The
vails in 1
We learo that, during the week, there has
An igno
been eight cares and two deaths by cholera
the midd
known, 1
in Beardstown and vicinity —1.
tempt fu
worthles
In 1830, with a population of 162,815,
own kno
we had in Illinois ten printing establishments
soning is
er one for every 10,251 inhabitants, nearly
and auth
the same proportion as in Massachusette, and
taught of
derstandi
greater than in several of the old states.
ence hay
Vermont had the same number of presses,
hand, ins
with a population of 250,079, or one for
nial of tr
esery 25,068 inhabitants.
Sonth Carolina,
and are o
with a population of 581,458 had fourteen
nemspapers or one for every 41,532.
clusive (
If since that period, the tide of emigra-
silly you
tion bas doobied our population, the news-
paper; an
paper press is not far behind it.
lives in
We believe
entreatie
tbere are now about twenty newspapers disarin th
pristed in the state. Of these six or eight
the wret
hate commenced within a few months, or:
some str
are now about commencing —Bounty Land
what mos
Reguster.
Robber
Cheering prospects for Pennsylcania.-
en, conta
ey, drafts
After nest rear, it is said her canals and
Baitinore
rail roads will pay for theinselves, and all the
field near
taxes raised for them may be removed.
rifled of
Paulcania Casal and Rail Road
mained u
Toll -The tolls collected on the Penn-
Ertrao
stitania Canal and Rail Road during the
and batte
week ending the 30th May, amounting to
Where th
$19,06248— former receipts $201,377 27.
plaintifi s
Total $250,439 75.
ping-post
on his ba
BLOODY ATTEMPT AT INSUR-
pay the
verdict is
RECTION./
tion, yet
Extract of a letter, published in the Bos-
ought to l
too irarscript of last Friday, dated
The P
St Michaels, Acores, pril 24.
in Engian
An extiaorinary episode in our history
the aftern
buja: occurredbere. İ esterday, a state
tances dri
proser be the name of Forach and about
The Princ
1S others. in sos in the Castle and under
and being
sentence of Lath, having well matured their
claime 1.
plet suddenis rose upon their guards, over-
so much i
porered the garrison, raised the draw bridge.
carry him
and then i
and boasted Doo Miguel's flag. They fired
ran away
upon every person within reach of their guns
and it was feared would fire upon the town.
Joselyn
The Miguelites are numerous in the country,
first time,
aid it war supposed they had some connec-
of Boston
too with them.
oflicer visi
The Governor was absent
butthree sesals were sent immediately to
ger goes
Terrera for troops. The whole town was
drink thai
he can sob
use, not koowing what the men who
and appoi
tod pression might do. About 3 o'clock
cannot ge
the homing, bowerer, apprehending want
of food, or despairing of any succor, they at-
tempted to escape into the country; but vol-
was heldi
bitters being on the alert, with fowling pie-
ster to the
on and such arous as they could muster,
ly to bim
found upon them a deadly fire, which killed
was nomi
De chief of the conspirators, and drove nine
we are no'
manifested
ecare inta St. Francis'
ther were alot. | have just
Square, where
of Van Bu
bace, having seen serenteen bodies lying
returned
An Indis
cal there.
The city is again quiet, and
returned fi
ve bope that the esent will be attended with
Arab gase
a result. Six or more heads will be sent
«The pa
b Iferent rillager, in terrorem.
more of ti
10 o'clock. P. M.-Four men, who had
than I tho
Thia I ren
aes put into prison, were made this evening
a est of the heads of seven, and the hands
truly amus
duneof the conspirators, and afterwards
have titter
own highl
carte bodies and throw them into the
broke botl
du; which being dose, three of the four
ken by a l
Sece ten cruelly despatched and thrown in-
will comple
the ditch the other escaped through the
"thy ar
relative of a soldier. This atrocious and
trice act inds no justification in the public
of an artic
fersed, bot the shades of night have screen-
opposition
tion, and si
el the perpetrators.
Because th
there are t
Raining the Wind -A good looking man
Sagged up to a teamster in one of the tav-
The K
et yuras in the north part of the city, a few
both year
san sitee, and asked him whother he did
mentioned
st ante through Willow Grove; and on
had taken
ang acawered in the affirmative, he asked
and had n
Perber be could not take up a quantity of
tra Ton was just what the teamster
State 1
sai-a little back freight, and of course
per cent lo
le tadly consented. " 1 have been pur-
thorized by
dang raber largely," said the man, " at
of Marylar
M: Harts; the goods are now all at the
to the cor
out, and the sooner you get your team
Ohio Cana
hay the better." Haste was of course
by J. I. C
potaed. But, said the man of business, "l
more.
ber alogetber for cash, and consequently
By the
get larguide, aod I have run out. Lend me
the loan, il
len dolans to make another small purchase,
cent; to b
Box: 1 wit have ready by the time you get
year 1870,
se other goods into your wagon."
premium ti
saster lent the money, but he never saw
is to be set
a bosses man afterwards. The rogue had
fund for t
**s esquiring as to the route of the dif-
terms on w
Serest wagorens.
have not ti
roace thr
Having
25

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 2 OF 6 =====

ng which time they will be cecupied
DEMOCR
marquee, near the Black Rock road,
ile and a half from the city, in tak-
The Dem
astronomical and topographica. ob-
nominationi
, relative to the business of their
ding in the
Senatorial D
is no branch of our national polity
OTTAWA,
mates to & D
rving the fostering care of this coun
for the purp
the one to which these gentlemen
the vacancy
their usefulness, both in matters of
Senator Sra
war, is indispensable, and me think,
other busine
slight acquaintance we have bad
Convention.
of its members, that no branch con-
June 16, 1
e talent, industry, and persevering
DEMOCRA
sto the inexhaustible sources of en-
science, which distinguishes our na-
The sever
all othera.— Buffalo Republican.
county of Cr
o & Conven
h aristocracy ie supposed to be from
RACT.-The
following picture of
et Mr. Jos.
July next, fo
Lord Brougham.
The truth of the
ates to be su
s it applies to that class in England,
6lled in Aug
no means likely to call in question;
to a Senator
rthermore think it exceedingly ap-
at Ottaws ol
a certain class in our own country.
and to do an
of which are within the reach of
may properl
rving eye.
Chicago, I
ant of sense and reason which pre-
so circles is wholly inconceivable.
CHICA(
anca of all that the more refined of
, or even of the lower classos, well
accompanied by an insulting con-
Salt,
Flour and M
any one who does not know any
Super
trifles which form the staple of their
edge. An entire incapacity of rea-
Bucky
win sisters to a ready and flippant
Indiar
itative denial of all that reason has
Grain—
ere. And utter imposibility of un
Corn
? what men of learning and experi-
Onta
Whes
become familiar with, staiks hand in
Provisions-
vent and exulting, with a stupid de-
the which are all but self-evident,
Beef,
extreme importance.
do i
Every female
this exquisite class is under the ex-
Pork,
minion of some waiting maid, or
lover, or slander-mongering news-
One h
if not under the sway of one paper,
Dried
dily fear of two or three. Bribes,
threats, are by turns employed to
,
se tyrants; and however tormented
White
ed victim may be, she is forced by
Butter
Lord
ge Intality, or propensity, to read
cortures her."
Cheear
White
Potato
—The trunk of General Maccrack-
Tallow,
ing nearly 200,000 dollars in mon-
Hides, dry
Sac., was cut from the stage near
Candies, box
Md. It was afterwards found in a
Building Mat
se road, partially broken open, and
Lumber, ass'
e cloting, while the money re-
Shingles
ouched.
Square timbe
Brick, per 10
linary Verdiet.—A case of assault
Stone,
Wood,
has been tried at Williamsburgh
jury returned a verdict that the
ould be taken to the public whip-
nd there receive thirty-nine lashes
MARRIED
back-and that his lawyer shouid
by the Rev. A
st of prosecution! Although this
ment, P. F. V
novel one in the history of ligits-
place, to Mat
a venture to say it in just what it
ATTORNE
ner of Anan-Aboo.— When he was
CH
walking out in St. Jamca Park in
Y attend
en, he observed one of his acquain-
en in his Phanton, with four horses.
to meril
burst into a yiolent fit of laughter,
executed with
Oflice with
aked the occasion of his mirth, ex-
two doors sou
Vat the devil! has that fellow eat
June 24, 18:
ner dat it now takes four horses to
I rode ost with bim this morning.
was eo light that von little horse
OFPICE OPPOSI
th him.
Doct.
who visited New England, for the
URGEON
in the abo
) 1638, relates that in the village
last year, ten
here were two licensed inne.
An
Chicago and v
them he adds, whenever a stran-
and promises 1
the officer thinks in his judgment
to them; and if he calls for more
tion to all bua
No pains will
ly bear away, he counternande it,
agreeable, and
, the proportion beyond which he
ural as possibl
one drop.
one year with
Ladies
in a lea-pot."—A great meeting
sheir residenes
June 24.
Boston to noininate Daniel Web-
restlency. None but those friend
CAST STI
Ted united and strange to my, he
June 24
ted ununimously! Wonder
P
ATENT
cold, that the spirit and unanimity
June 2.
t this meeting, insures the defeat
OAL and i
n.- Concord Patriot.
June 24.
25
DOZ.
ity.— A medical man who had just
June
• setting the broken leg of an
he following anecdote:-
300
ent," aaid the dector, complained
June 24.
necident which had befallen him,
50 KERSEY
gbt beeorning one of his tribe.-
June 24.
rked to him, and his answer was
200 PAIRS
g: Do not think, doctor, 1 should
Boots, f
1 one word of compiaint, if my
June 24.
ead rolt, in a playful trick, had
100 BOXES
ny lege; but, to have a boue bro-
June 2
ate of a jackass is too bad, and 1
125
not the Whige united?" is the title
22
KEGS
which is going the rounds of the
do. for
pere. We will anewer the ques-
June 24.
e them the trouble of repesting it.
New
i all want office and can't get it;
Auction I
many fifth calves.— Best. States.
THE subact
tucky Gazette commenced its
David Ca
door west of J.
short time since, at which time it
cting & gene
le names of ten subscribers who
ION busines
he paper for forty-nine years,
olace on Wedn
er been indebted one cent.
Persons desiro
estate, town k
above day, wil
in.— We understand that the six
Auction Room
i of two million of dollars au-
an act of the General Assembly
June 23.
, at its last session, with a view
letion of the Chesapeake and
BRIGHT
to Cumberland, has been taken
low in fle
en, Jr. and Brothers of Balti-
the Oplane, wa
and it is suppos
ovisions of the act authorising
cinity of Mr. 1
to bear an interest of six per
that will cause
Mr. Joseph Na
reimbursable any time after the
ward.
and not to be disposed of at a less
June 23, 183
n 15 percent. The premium
HEN
part, and to accumulate, as a
ATTORNEY
payment of the debt.
. The
And S
ich the loan has been taken,
spired.
(OFFICE i

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 3 OF 6 =====

IC SENATORIAL DISTRICT
CONVENTION.
Boot Sho
1 THE subscri
ratic Republicans, triendly to the
f the National Correntin, rosi-
the inhabi
ferent counties composing this
lie in general, t
trict, are requeated to send Dele-
Shoe and Leatha
rict Convention, to be holden at
doors north of l
se second Wednesday in Jaly neat,
ufacture for sale
• of nominating a candidate to fil
and Shoes of al
occasioned by the resignation of
and workmansh
*nsor, and for transacting such
tion of country.
a may properly come before said
an extensive as
By Order of the Commillse.
35.
Sole Leather,
do.
IC REPUBLICAN COUNTY
do.
Skirting. Har
CONVENTION.
Lesther:
precincts and settlements of the
Calf Skins, Pl
k, are reqoested to send Delegates
Boot undresse
on, to be held at PLAG CREEK
Red and Yello
AL'a House, on the Fourth day e
Together witl
orted for the County Offices, to be
ae purpose of nominating candid.
Persons wishing
call and examine
I District Convention, to be held
t next, and to appoint Delegates
Cash paid for
the second Wednesday in July,
transact such other business as
Chicago, June
come before the Convention.
By the Presi
By Order of the Committee
ne 16, 1835.
a pursuance
President of
do hereby declan
) PRICES CURRENT,
lic Sale will be
GREEN BAY,
ORRECTED WEEKLY.
commencing on
8 2 75 = 3 00
of August next
1-
Lends situate w
bbl 15 00 a 16 00
mentioned towns
13 00
Vis.:
eat flour
none.
North of toe
1 00 • 1 50
principal Meridi
Townshipe 1,
and fractional to
1 00 a 1
.50
of range 9.
63
69
and 14, and fract
Ib
4
6
Townahipe 1,1
It mess
10
00 a 11
00
fractional townsl
9
00
Townabip», 1,
ess no. 1,
20
00
range 13
no. 2,
6
00
Township 4, 0
1
4
00
At the same
00
mencing on Mus
1b
10
12
fual nezt, for the
10
within the limite
8
00
ships, and fractio
20
25
North of the
8
9
principal Meridis
1b
12
Fractional tow
none.
Fractional tow
1
00 • 1
50
range 18.
9 a
10
Fractional tow
1b
8
9
20, and fractions
1b
12
14
range 19.
ials-
Fractional tow
1000
it 28
00 a 20
00
ships 20 and 21,
3
00
3
50
and 23, of range
5
G
Townshipe 17
5 00
6
:00
tional townships
6 00 %
6 50
21.
75
88
Townehipe 17,
cord 2 50
and fractional to
range 22.
-In this town on the 20th inst.
Practional tow
B. Hubbard, of Doapage Settle-
-, 20,21,2
PacK. Eag. Merchant of this
ships 25 and 26,
K. Wirus, of Philadelpbia.
Practional towi
fractional townsh
• ABELL,
23 and 24, of rang
+ COUNSELLOR AT LAR,
Fractional tow
24, of ange 25.
AGO, ILLINOIS,
Each sale will
gatrietly to his profession hopes
and no longer.
stronage. Law Conveyaneing
The lands rese
canese and despatch.
sehoole, or for ot
aq Harmon. in Dearborn street,
from sale.
of the "Eaglo Coffee House."
Given under m
•-10
inglon, shia sixth
ENTISTRY.
By the President
• THE , LAKE-STAE#T.
ELIJAH HA
Commisioner
M. H. KENNICOTT,
DENTIST, who has practiced
NOTICE TO I'RI
• profession in thie town for the
Persona claimin
• his thanka to the citizens of
any of the aforeaic
nity, for their liberal patronage,
the same, to the s
continue his unremitting atten-
Receiver, prior to
ess in the line of his profession.
General Land O
"pared to render all operations
6th May, 183:
he result as permanent and nat-
NOTICE-
keeping in repair all work for
1 additional charges.
gainst purch
ded either at the office, or s1
by me, payable to
Charges moderate.
bearing date 12th
10
same has been pai
oh, for sale by
Chicago, June 10
JoRe, Kiao de co.
rought Iron Horse Shoes, for sale
Ir
Jones, Kino & co.
RON, Steel, N
per Lesther, for sale by
complete assor
Jones, Kixo de eo.
sale by
ool Hate for sale by
250
BBLE
Joke, Kisa & co.
200 b
. Domestic Flannels,
Dreasod
or sale bi
sie by
Jones, KInG & co.
June 16
New and
aga, for sale by
Jons, Kino & co.
THE subscriber
ogans; 200 pr. Coarse & fiue
splendid sas
sale by Joxzs, Kino de co.
Dry Go
Ready Made Cloth
laas, for sale by
Jones, Kino & co.
cles.
He respectfi
erally, and his fries
S Nails assorted, for male by
exantine his stock
JoNse, KINa & co.
Lasting Poacder: Roger'= Rifle
Chicago, June 11
ale by
PHILo .
TMMEDIATEL
W
stablishment,
tin and sheet it
d Commiesion House.
june 17, '35,
er having taken the Store of
rer. South Water street, next
THE suhacriber
Rotar
right, for the purpose of trana.
COMANSSIO and Ale
His first public wate will take
to contract fr
ENGINES, Arery
day next, the 1st day of July.
of having merchandize, real
Wut.KIson and Sons
dc., disposed of, upun the
has been fully teat
please furnish the same at the
land machinery, a
stitute for water pot
. MONTGOMERY, Aué'.
rior to the lat.
discovered, they wi
use in this region f
ny person wishing
+ Reward.
tion to the Engine,
JONES,
ay HORSE, with short tail,
June 16, 1835.
, with saddle on, runaway near
taken up by two travellers,
20
1 they have left him in the vi-
june 16
ardman'a Mill. Any person
o said property to be sent to
20,000
r's, will retire the above re-
ROBERT DIXON.
-10 ₩3.
200 bbis. meas, Pr
Y MOORE,
sale by
COUNSELLOR AT LAR,
20
BBLS. VI.
june 16.
icitor in Chancers,
hicago, Hineis,
NOTICE is here
school L.
1. H. Kinzie'a new atore.)
exposed to 8e

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 4 OF 6 =====

& Leather Store.
Ins
r would respectfully inform
The NorthWestern
nta of Chicago, and the pab-
INCORPORATE
State of New-Y
ke street, where he will man-
The capital stock o
adies' and gentlemen'• Boota
paid in and secured,
sizen, warranted both in style
of the act of incorpe
to be equal to any in this nee-
He has also on hand for wale,
asis for insuring agai
Aleo, they will tak
rtment of leather, consisting
and Boats employed
er or Inland Navigati
t tanned Baltimore ina'd best;
and Merchandize to
New-York;
Steamboats insured
se. Bridle, Band and Upper
risk, for the season,
month at special rate
adelphia tan'd. best in market:
Vessela navigating
and common Morocco;
season, month or vo
do.
DIR
ining», Bindinge, etc.
WILLIAM DENsINO,
• purchase are requested to
FREDERICK STARLI
or themselves.
DAvID CROCKER
IDES and SKINS.
JANEs ROGERT, Jr.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY.
JOHN GRANT, Jr.
1, 1635.-10.
GEo. FISHER.
ent of the United States.
T
Ww.
law, 1, ANDRaw JACKsoN,
Moses P. HATcH,
• United
States of Ameries,
Oncego, June, 1
and make known, that a Pub.
held at the Lanp Orrick, at
Capt. HIRAM HI
a the territory, of Michigan,
TOTICE is heret
onday, the seventeenth day
dersigned,
or the diaposal of the Public
will make application
hin the limita of the under-
ty Commissioners, f
pe and fractional townships,
Ferry across the illir
the mouth of the Fox
se line, snd East of the 4th
to be established as n
ings as may be, and r
3. 4,
5. 6. 7.8.9 and 10.
nahipe I1, 12, 13, 14 and 15,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13
nal township 15, of range 10.
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 14, and
1
• 15, of range 11.
, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and D, of
Dated Ottawa, June
ange 13.
To Me
ace, in continuation, com.
WANTED & •it
ay the for the rudue Land.
isposal of the Public
mercial estab
I the undermentioned town.
who has been in gene
years, and can give Li
al township, viz.:
so line, and East of the 4th
acter ect. addreas to
paper.
hips 20 and 21, of range 17.
DR. J. H
8* 17, 19, 20 and 21, of
AT THE NEW-TONK
ships 17 and 19, township
VENDERS his pr
Isownships 21 and 2, ot
inhabitants of
and hopes by his atten
ships 17,
18 asd 19, town-
it a share of public pa
nd fractional townships 22
Chicago, June 3, 18
8, 19, 20 and 21, and frac-
Ready Ma
2, 23, 24 and 25, of range
NOR sale: awell
June 3.
8,19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24,
ships, 1, 8, 9, 10 and 25, of
On Con
A
SUPPLY of Sa
hips 17 and 18, townships
Redford crosen
nd 24, and fractional town-
at the manufacturer's
range 2.
of freight. The last
hips 18 and 19, township 20,
rier to the Boston cr
• 21 and 22, and townahipe
transparency and str
hipe 19, 20, 91, 92, 23 and
stronger than cylinder
Chicago, June 3, 18:
• kept open for two weeks,
New York Ch
ed by law, for the use of
Clothing
r purposes, will be excluded
THE aubeeriber he
hand, at the City of Wash.
factured, an ext
sy of May, A. D., 1634.
of CLOTHING that
ANDREW JACKSON.
prices, with any estat
An this is one of ti
TARD,
tabliahmenta in the cit
" the General Land Crice.
able, from long experi
provements in the qual
EMPTION CLAIMANTS.
The articles will all be
the right of pro-emption to
on the most liberal ter
anda, are required to prove
8w7.
faction of the Register and
No. 138 Pearl-St.
e day of sale.
, }
To 1
THE handsome an
House, Istely ere
• persona are cautioned a-
Kinzie's addition. Fo
ing a Note or due bill signed
H. Thompwon or order,
June 3, 1835.-7.
13th of May last, as the
ut not taken up.
TOTICE.-The
DAVID CARVER.
Michigan, and F
1835.
Band of Michigan, at I
all the safety fund Ban
n, dc.
York-the Bank of Cle
at Cincinnati, will be r
Rode, Wiro, Vices, ete. •
fice at Chicago.
E.
nent, Juat received and for
June 4, 1835.-6.
P. PRUYNE & CO.
Salt from Salina Works:
For
TWo Stores: one
es table salt, (a fine article)
P. PRUYNE & CO.
and one on Lake
fortable Dwelling En
Cheap Goods,
Chicago, May 27, 183
OLD STAND.
Hardware,
• now opening a large and
ment of
HE undersigned h
Is, Groceries,
in the merchantila
of Jones, King 4 co.
* and Mircellaneous Arti-
Brig Illinoia, a large an
y requests the public gen-
Hard
• in particular, to call and
goode,
Cuttlery, Nails,
PETER COHEN.
A large and complete a
1835.
sTO
anted,
and Store Furniture. Ir
Geering, which they off
one copper sinith, and one
i worker.
TAIL.
JONES, KING & CO.
• Engines.
May 26, 1635.
ave been appointed Agenta
RUSSELL E
the sale of the ROTARY
Counsellor and A
Patent, manufactured by
Buffalo. As thia Engine
WIl.T. attend to all
in saw-malls, and other
found to be a better sub-
care, in his prof
r than has heretofore been
the business tor all wh
no doubt go into general
land conveyancing, bein
business may be done a
grinding and sawing.
conveniently. He will
-ther information in rela-
the same place, a Land
ill picase call or
purchase of land, the pa
ING & CO. Chicago.
all who may give him bur
ing been a resident at Cl
ERM Off., for sale by
years, and being acquai
HUBBARD & CO.
section of land for the f
nois canal line, and for
miles around Chieago.
LBS. Super HAMS:
15,000
Shoulders:
nualified to give informat
10,000 ' Laird;
lo the business for non-
in the state.
ae and one hog Pork; for
HUBBARD & CO.
Letters addreased to ti
will be attended to.
"GAR: for sale by
HUBBARD & CO.
Chiesgu, May 23, 1885
nds for Sale.
Dry Gra
given, that there will be
at Auction at the Court
LARGE lot is now
New or
ION

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 5 OF 6 =====

ranec.
Administrat
re and Marine huurence
LL persons having
of Omego.
by the Legislature of the
Lasalle county, Illinois,
tate of Madison C
k, CAPITAL $150,000.
required to exhibit the
ticated, for settlenient, i
for said county, on the
tion, will receive propo-
axi, for the purpose of
it loss or damage by fire,
at which time I shall att
Marine Riak upon Vessele
make a settlement of mai
n any Lake, Canal, Riy.
4159
LEWT
, or upon Goode, Wares,
transportes thereon.
ALT-On consign
againat Fire and Marine
June 9.
JOL
ding Nov. Ist, or by the
Scythes, Cr
• Lakes, sither by the
DOZ. Grass Scy
.
4 do. Cradles an
CTORS:
25 doz. Seythe Snatha
AL.TIX BRORSON,
Hay Forks:
6
" Manure do.
C. PALMER,
12
" Shovels: 4 da
B. FITZHUOu,
Scythe Stones, Riflel,
A. P. GRANT,
June 9.
8. MORGAN, Pra'c
Wanted Im
DeNNING, V. Prest
N apprentice at this
c'y.
5.-6m9.
usiness,
A good o
by an immediate applicati
SUNIN, Agent, Chieago.
May 20th, 1835.
given, that we, the un-
JAMES G
ens of Lasalle county,
o the hon. board of coun-
ATTORNEY & COUN
•grant to establish a
a river, above and below
Office in the Store o
liver, and for the landing
REFERENCE:
r the present ferry iand-
SUTPAN, JACsSOn &
interfere with the same.
BRown & HosE,
R. POTTER,
8. THoMPsoN & co.
RING DESAW.
J. R. DoRE,
SON WOODRUFF,
AAC MARLETT.
NJAMIN HARRIS,
JOHN D
M. STADDEN,
8ZRAM-0A
NJ. THOMPSON.
I, 1835.-4w9.
KORTH WATEI
CHICAGO, 1
chants.
#428, 011
tian as clerk. in a com-
BOOTS &
hment, by a young man
I buainess for the Inat 12
WHOLESALE A
i testimoniale ns to char-
TIE subecriber is nos
. B. at the office of this
sortment of the abc
June 5, 1835.
South- Water st. one door
BARNARD,
where he intends to keep
sortment of the named ar
JOE'SE, LAKE-STREET,
ceiving additions to his a
casional services to the
20 days, through the seas
icago, and its vieinity,
Traders are respectfully
on and assiduity to mer-
examine for themselves.
onage,
JOH:
. -7.
Agent fo
Chicago, Jane 10, 1635.
e Clothing,
elected assortment, by
BETWEEN my stor
Lost
P. CARPENTER.
house, a top or slid
gament,
Stick, which will be of r
nac Windone Glass, and
but the owner.
The find
ass, which will be sold
by leaving it with me at i
ally rewarded.
rices, with the addition
rticle is said to be supe
Chicago, June *th, 1835.
rn Glaas, in clearness,
gth, being cheaper and
Strayed or
lass.
ILO CARPENTER.
hore, 6 years old. *
N the 23d of May,
a saddle mark on the lelt si
ap Wholesale
on the forehead, with m
breeching on the sides, sho
Parehouse.
Any one returning said!
on hand, freshly manu-
shall be handsomely rewal
sive and complete stock
ble charges paid.
1l compare in atyle and
ahment in the country.
Chicago, June 9th, 1835.
oldest of the large o-
KEGS Cayene Pepper
the subseriber has been
101bs. Lobelia; for sa
ice, to make great im-
old at a small advance,
y and wizes of his goods.
June 5, 1835.
P.
RIGGING, cordage,
chords, 22 bales Onk
F. J. CONANT,
sail needles, palms, pitch n
up stairs) Nae-York.
June 5, 1835.
P.
ent,
Boots and
convenient Dwelling-
fow boses of Boots an
ed by Mr. Rezigue, on
coarse, coarse fine, an
ering, ikc. apply tc
and childrens Boota and ah
E. K. HUBBARD.
P.
June 5. 1835.
mere of the Bank
30
Doz. Brooms,
and Mechanics'
P.
troit; alro the notes o
June 5, 1835.
of the State of New-
rland, and the Banks
Drugs & Me
eived at the Land Of-
• TAYLOR, Reer.
Fall supply of Drugs :
been this day receive
Co. which they offer low
ent,
Medicine, or to country mei
n South-water street,
June 5, 1835
street: also one com-
Fine Chen
ire of
J. T. TEMPLE.
65
Ounces Superior Fr
-3w-6
niactored by the
Delombre and Levalliant of
stoves, de.
10 gros Jodine.
e formed a connection
Hydicodate of Pot
asiness, under the firm
5
* * Sulphate of Morph
hey are receiving by
10 Ibe. London steam mill
general assortment of
Extract Belladonns.
Extraet Hop.
Pare,
Cieute, ect. for •
ron, Steel, &c.
P.
ortment of
Agenc
NEW-YORK American,
Wars and Sase Mill
and Semi-neckly: An
ILLIAM JONES,
at WHULKSALE Or RE-
New-York Farmer. Rail-Ro
YRAM KING.
gister of Internal Improve
Mazazine and Register of In
. B. CLARKE.
ions for the above publicati
StewART. at Col. Hamilton'
Chicago, Noe. 26, 1n31.-1
HEACOCK,
orney at Law,
FOUNI
IN the nods adjoining. 1
Licago, Ilinois.
usineas confided to his
of papers, consisting of l
sion. He will aiso do
property we should judge by
• Surice of the peace
German or the name of Bert
a pedlar.
plying to this office and pay
The owner can hi
reasonabe, and more
Iso open and keep at
tisement. Nac. 12, 1834.-
gency Office, for the
Goods at Wh
nent of taxes, die, for
ess in that line: hay-
THE subecribers are n
cago for the last eight
offer for sale, at Wh
al with almost evers
an exteneive assortinent of
t 30 miles of the Ill-
o distance of many
Dry Goods, G1
i thinka hinself well
Hardware, Crocl
n on that subject, and
Dealers in the interior wil
identa, se any other
advantage to call before the
subecriber, post paid,
or the Bast, as these goode
Importers in New York.
posite the Exchange
at a low price.
HU
ke and Franklin-sta.
July 1.
-Btf.
DATED TAI
eries,
LUMBER DEALER &
tered for sale, by
MERCUA

===== ISSUE PAGE 3 / PDF PAGE 31 / COLUMN 6 OF 6 =====

Notice.
aime sgainst the es-
alin, decessed, late of
re hereby notified and
me, properly authen-
the court of Probete
urth Monday in July
aving thein adjusted,
& before asid court to
state.- June 6. 1835.
BAILEY, Adm'r.
'S, KING & CO.
diles, &e.
cs:
Scythes;
Spades:
e. for sale by
PRUYNE & CO.
rediately.
ice to the printing
ortunity is offered,
LANT,
SOLOR AT LAR,
icago, Illinois.
Hubbard & Co.
0Nete- York City.
Buffalo.
troit.
I VIS,
TREER.
LINOIS.
HoES,
D RETAIL.
opening a heavy ag-
• named articies, on
om Dearborn street,
, hand a large an-
les: and will be re-
ortment every 15 or
1.
equested to call and
HOLBROOK,
the Manufacturere.
Btf
and Col. Owen's
to a silver Candle
use to any person
will confer a lavor
store, and be liber-
HI. MULFORD.
stolen,
Chestnut Sorrel
entenn haade high,
of the back, a star
is of the traces and
all round.
ree to the subscriber
ed, and all reasona-
J. K. BOYER.
00 Ibe. gum Myrrh;
ROYNE & CO.
ine, marline. bed
m, caulking tools,
1 tar.
RUYNE & CO.
Shoes.
Shoes, warranted,
fine, aiso womens
RUYNE&. CO.
for sale by
le by
COYNE, «Co.
icines.
d Medicines,
by P. Pruyne d
• practitioners. of
sants.
icals.
ch Quinine, man-
ebrated chemiste
aris.
h.
blue Pill Mass
e by
LYNE & Co.
Daily, Uri-weekiy
rican Plough Bes,
Journal and Re-
ents.
Mechanics
ntions.
oftice.
town, a pariage
%, notes, &e. the
he contenta, of a
d Joste or Yostc,
e the saite by ap+
g for this adver-
lesale.
v receiving and
sale and Retail,
ceries,
ry de.
find it to their
go to St. Louie,
re purchased of
can be afforded
JARD & Co.
,
OMNIS ION

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 1 OF 6 =====

THE MARRIED D
We mise thee, love, wher
Her shadowe vale o'er
When all our happy chik
To blend their tones of
And many & joyous spirit
Its musie on the sir,
Ab, then our sweetest, be
Thy voice is wanting u
And when we speak of th
Comes over every brow
We think of all thou wer
And feel so lonely now
The treasured memories o
Our hearts still linger c
And every day and every
We miss thee more and
The barp that to thy fairy
It thiilling manic pour
In silent now, as if the po
Had fled from each full
And if the night breeze w
Draw forth a taint, low
Tears tremble in thy mott
Wept for the abaent or
Well-thou art happy. an
Must soon be reconciled
Although 'tie very bard t
Away our darling child.
But he is worthy of thy I
Who claims thee for hia
And dearest he will cheris
When we to rest have g
POLICE OF
An Original.—Among
brought before Mr. Justic
day morning, was a "rale
ocine down-easter. He
the watch returns by th
Blakeman; and on a paral
in the column that was
word "offences" at the he
ed the ouninous word "craz
*Bring up the ciazy mi
gistrate land put him at th
*Well, I guess he won"
of putting, Mister, exclai
question, in a particularly
at once proclaimed him a
Productor thaled you ea
the roll-call or tbe crack
Ret me under a strap inst
jocky tarnal sight.'
Mag.— What's your na
Pris.— Well, my father
Mag —And what besid
Pris.—John Blakeman.
Mag And is your nam
Pris —Well, may be
'taint; halt my name's 1
half's Altred-cant help m
taint rone of my choos
good feller, though.
Mag-—Well, Alfred E
you coine fiom?
Pris.—Well, if you
come from now, 1 shoul
quizzing. "cause you kno
place underneath here wh
up better nor I do; but
where was 1 raised.
Wh
1 goss 1 was born nigh l
of Stamford, in the Sta
Pret a lane, but th
sneaking genius for the
bound to corriage painter
critter never gime but o
dian meal—all the time, a
enough that; and you
o molasses for one year's
I cleared out with a few n
my way to York. Oh,
Telling long journeys-ai
Bill—there's no sprawi in
merkin good for nothing-
feller as Bill since I bre:
life, I tell'e now.
Well
and that same night 1 wen
there was as many goods a
the streets as you could
twixt now and everlastir
to work and pulled off my
I saved about balfo the g
two-thirds-and then I co
coat, and it was gone.
Mag — Was it a long
Here the blagistrate
blue coat that had ben h
fire, and asked him if thi
had lost.]
Pns.-No, that's no acg
nor no relation to my col
lost my coat, I got niled
out, riglar ructrous, and I
teller that tock it, I'd mac
sear the gnostun, and be
nim l'd make bim wish bis
I felt cloar grit, jet then,
everiesting, spell o fever;
feller comes up to me, and
guess that coat your'e a
owned you for a mnaster.'
to bet something 'o that: m
to back your word with
wouldn't; and then says 1
what yere good for; for he
abeaps head, while I'm al
like a sheap's tail going os
a eharper as I do poison, bu
close a feller is, butter my h
says he to me, you seem
•Well says I, I'm jist about
ticks they cut way down
they won't lay still; and,
all the kinks pulld out 'o
ears button'd back, and a
your mouth accordin to 1
more than you would now,
a tarnal sight. I'd give me
russele of. And then he j
mal as the leetle eed o
down to a pint. And then I
calculate to cut up his nas
with me, for I'd been a leet!
for that, and I'd seen som
him among the Ingins. 8
me, Do tell-you sint ma
you!'-Then, says I, But
and be ob; *double up you
up his fist; "now hit me,
away-that was all I wante
be couldn't take the law
he didnt it the stifin tar

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 2 OF 6 =====

Mag-—And if-t let you go
30.
you ateer next?
• Pris.-That's jist how the
JO ITER.
meed to serve my country
wilight draws,
French, to git them ten cent
arth:
us; Bo 1 listed on boarda •
ep meet,
lays out in the bay a oysteri
nirth,
man on earth, but God Alr
him in the dark.
Nag.—Well, go and serve
beloved,
you are diechargod.—V. Y.
re.
, a cloud
GooD ADVICE "TOR A DIN:
man humbly clad in a curac
o us,
entered Wood's Hotel, Clare
the pant,
dered a sort of dinner lunch,
unlimted mutton chops, and
ar,
repono, not forgetting suitab
.
brandy &c. All these thing+
gentleman called the waiter,
sed him: My friend, I have far
Good house thie-capital cl
ord;
mirable-brandy expuisite!
dering by
however-hav'nt a shilling ul
one,
ward, rather, 'tis true-perh
consequence
till to-morrow.
quoth the waiter, with the m
conceived than expreesed exal
we too
brown. 'why sir, I'll call maste
accordingly caller. He can
monstrated-complained-but
ed. The gentleman, mored 1
ance, said, ' think that I may
you.
I cuuld tell you of a
ne.
properly pursued, would be p
happiest resuits to you, not
CE.
of general business, but also
personal comfort. Pray be
he many pipeds
bear to see you stand; indee
Wyman yester-
so embarrassingly situated, I
iginal"—a gen-
yonr laking a glass of wine w
was entered or
ever, perhaps you'll agree w
name of Alfred
*in for a penny in for a pound
with his name,
a bottle of your best port, and
gnified with his
yourself, and we'll talk over
don't think you'l see cause t
of it, was plac-
my acquaintance.'
"
The ob
smiled and complied, and aft
i said the Ma-
course given to the conveneati
bar?
ger, for some half hour, all the
vant a great deal
the promised development
ed the derelict in
perceived that the said strange
horous tone, that
Tainliar expression, buttonin
and making the best of his
newly imported
•But, sir,
exclaimed Wood,
• habits, though
let me into a secret of some c
n to have me in
you have not said n word a
ist, you'd better
me, said the gentleman, with
d of a bar, by a
door, "that's very true, so 1
you mentioned it.
The fact i
e?
ble to misfortune; and if ever
name was John.
the treadmill, take the step ne
John?
—you'll hind it by far the eas
wheel. Good evening. You
me in a day or two.'
John Bleakman?
Strange
ner has not been heard of since.
is, and may be
eakman, t'other
Nails and Sp
name you know,
-bear it like a
100
KEGS Troy Nails,
19 do. Burden's pa
31-2 to 7 wish, for sale by
akman, where do
June 9.
P. PRI
ean where do I
Glass.
ay you're kinder
100
BOXES Peru Glas
the name of the
35 bozen Pittsburgh, do. frol
to 16 to 20.
e they locked me
12, for sale by
P. PRI
T telle. Well,
guess you inean
June 9, 183
d on to the town
Mackerel
of Connecticut,
BLI.S. Mackerel, No. 1, al
You see, I began
June 9.
JONES, 1
I had a sorte
FEW choice Double Bar
be arts, and so l
June 9.
JONES,
but the plaguy
Patent Medicin
sort'o food-Li-
I he didn't gi'me
GROSS Lees Pills; 1 do.
Dean's Rheumati
ever see a streak
1
do.
Thompson Eye W
od to t'other. So
1 do.
Scudder's
Bateman's Drops Godfrey's
ons, aud peddled
Bad British Oil Opodelioc, Hit
don't mind tra-
like my brother
June 5, 1835.
im—great slum-
ever seed sich a
ALPH'& celebrated Thyge
ed the breath of
good's Elixir of Health:
cen: for sale by
P. PRE
1 come to York,
June 5, 1835.
o the fire-well,
d notions all over
D
R. Scudder' celebrated A
shake a stick at
tain remedy for deafnese
Price $1 per bottle. P. PRI
—well.
I went
June 5, 1835.
coat, and 1 guess
AINTS, Oils, paint Brus
ds, may be about
brushes, Logwood, Nicar
e to look for my
wood, ete. for sale by P. PRI
5, 1835.
led blue?
United
Ntates
anded out an old
ught in from the
was the coat he
intance lo mine,
Well, when I
FROM
GALENA TO
over inside and
• Four Horse Pest Coaches, 1
id if I catch the
on's Ferry,) TWICE A WEEN
hum shave prett
lena, every Sunday and Wednes
re l'd done wil
P. M., and leave Chicago, eve
ake dough.
Oh,
Tureday for Galena.
tell ye; I had an
i a tall slab-rider
THE subseriber offers for
Lots for Sa
ye he, Mister, 1
king arter never
terma, a number of lots,
in the School Section, on the r
Maybe you'd like
original town.
enough, aint ye.
Chicago, May 19, 1835. —5t.
. K.
trifle?"
But he
Why, I wonde
On Consignu
vas all jaw like •
100
BBLS. of old Obi
is up and down
rate article.
ra wall. I hate
SOLE LEATHER;
I don't care bow
Mens, womens and childrens
e if I do. 'Well,
Muy 26.
JONES, I
arnal cruked. -
s cruked as then.
Pocket Book 1
st: jist so cruked
ya 1, tif you ha
POCKET BOOK is left at
ur carcase, your
was found by an Indian in
dder haul'd over
the payment last fall, containin
you'd sell for
which the owner, (F. Caldwell
can have by paying a remunerat
ad last longer by
an, and for publishing this noti
: for ye with tho
at this office. May 19, 1835,-
looked about E>
eting whittled
Wanted Inmed
d him be needn't
FRST rate BAKER; one
nigger didoes
quainted with the busine
too far down eue
good wages and constant employ
ody plaguy like
at this ofice, May 25, 1836.-/
then he says t
Chicago & St. Jeser
nor nothing, bi
ist —he doables
a up your coa
INHE new Scho
LYN, CLAR
he bit me righ
ply for freight and
jist to be hit
of 8t Joseph and Chicago. Fo
ing navigation, bet
me, and then
sage apply to David Carver o

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 3 OF 6 =====

bick way will
J. OURTISB,
ip steers; for I
Attorsey and Connellor a
SOLICITOR IN CHAN
and whip the
lecer they owe
CHICADO, ILLINOIS.
FFICE in South
Water-st
an-o war that
weat of Mosers. Jones, K
' for 1 feare no
stairs.) Alay 18, 1835.-
ghty, and only
GEO. W. FORBY
our country-
Attorney at
[uncertain: ancripl.]
Ottawa, Illinois.
ESPECTFULLY offers hi
-^ gentle-
services to the inhabitanta
coat, one day
the adjoining counties.
Agencies and Conveyancing
larket, and or-
with prompt afteution.
n the shape of
Ottase, June 1, 1834.
otatoes to cor-
fluide, porter,
HAVE just received their Spr
isposed of, the
d thue addres-
sumptuons g.
50 Chests, half cheste and catti
GRocKRIEs, as followe:
pe porter ad-
son Tea.
2 cheate Imperial
ght ditlienity.
do.
at me! Awk-
do. in
2
s not of much
do. fi
3
•Why, sir,
gunpowder
do.
12 blds. St. Croix, and N. Orl
h more easily
20 bbls. Loaf and Lump
Lion of his eye-
2 boxes
Master was
4 bhda. Weat Todia Molasses.
-bowed—re-
16 pipes and hall piper Seignet
ever threaten-
Brandy.
such forbear-
6 pipes Bladeira Wine.
e of service to
1d a half pipes do. old and f
lan which, if
2 pipes Port
do.
Red do.
ductire of the
10 gr. cark» Malaga do.
ly in the way
6 baskets Champaigne Sillery
regards your
1 hhd. St. Croix Rum.
ated-I can't
2 pipes Holland Gin.
if I were not
60 bags Laguairs and East Indi
ould insist on
40 mata Cassia./
h me. How-
1 case of Cloves.
h the proverb,
3 tierces Rice.
so pray bring
40 boxes Raisins.
wine glassfor
3 bbls.
do.
Currants, Pepper, Spice, Stare
hie matter.
regret making
elles, Ginger, Sal Aerat us ect. all
ofter to the public unusually los
ring landlord
approved paper.
following the
Chicago, June 5, 1835
by the stran-
Ville awaiting
S
TOT
the plan, be
THE subacribers having tak
was, to use a
Store, in La Salle
street,
up for a bolt,
South of Hubbard & Co's. bric
y for the door.
respectiully inform the inhabitant
u promised to
and its vicinity, that they have
sequence, and
intend keeping a good and gene
ut it. Bless
Dry Goods, Groc
is band on the
. Very glad
Hardware, Crockery, Boots, Sh
we are all lia-
AT WHOLESALE AND R
ou are sent to
Their assortment consists in part
est to the wall
ing articles, viz:
st part of the
Dry Goods.
hall bear from
Blue, black, brown, green and ir
o say, the din-
Fraser's Mag.
Black, blue, drab and mix't C
Sattinetta: plain and striped
White and brown Drilling*:
kes.
Molakin; cord roy: Rowen Ca
«sorted sizes.
Blue and figured twill'd Jeans
Clothing.)
nt Spikes, from
French Bombazines: Bed Tick
NE & CO.
French, English and American
Black and col'd Italian and Gr
Figured do.; printed Muxlins:.
Bobbinett Laces; Gauze and Li
from 8 by 10,
Fancy dress Handkerchiefs;
Linens; Musline; Checks:
7 by 9 to 10 by
Ready made Clothing, ete. etc.
NE & CO.
Crotcries.
N. O. and P. R. Sugars; Joat
Y. Hyson and black Teas: Coff
No. 2.
per, sispice, ginger, chocolate,
raisins, starch, soap, cavendish al
ING & CO.
eo, segars, snut, lamp oil, port,
Guns, at
muscat wines, mustara, powder a
ctc. etc. etc.
NG & co.
Marbware.
5,
&c.
Log and trace Chains; Nails:
Scott's pills,
Shuvels and Spades: Hoes: Se
pills;
Steel yards; Shovels and Tong
Tea Keltles: Traps, cow Bells,
ter;
Anvila, Axes, trowels, fles, ras
ordial, Harlaem
Butts and screws, Jocks, latche
d do.; for sale
Knives and forks, spoons, pock
NE & CO.
Looking Glassce:
An assortment of Carpenter's
Boots, Shors ano
Pills: Blood-
waim's Pana-
SE & CO.
kip Shoes and Slips; cacks, ch
also, fine and common beaver and
ustie Oil, a cer-
NE & CO.
or sale by
As we intend to sell cheap for
our whole attention to our busine:
merit and receive a share of the p
age.
MAGIE & WIl
ee white wash
Chicago, June 11, 1835.-8Lf.
Notice.
EALED Proposals will be rec
subscriber, until the firet day
I Stages,
at 12 o'clock M. for the delivery •
cords of merchantable wood, to
the U.S. at Eort Dearborn, on or
day of November, 1836.
led by the contractor at such pl
The wo
Jearborn as will bo desinated
Asst, Quartermaster, and must c
CHICAGO,
following kinde and no other, to wi
• Dixon, (Dix-
will leave Ga-
y, at 3 e'clock
Baturday and
required to accompany each bid.
1. T. JA
Lt. and d
Fort Dearborn, May 22, 1835.-
on liberal
igibly situated
N. B. Seperate bida will also b
er.
and in the
the delivery of twenty tons of bes
IUBBARD.
to be cut in July or before the 101
next; each ton to contain by actu
pounds.
mt,
/NOTICE.-
Whiskey; Grat
are hereby
the commanding
Boots & Shoes.
Dearborn, at Chi
NG & CO.
is authorized to call in, and receip
ted States Arins and Accoutrementi
of citizons of the country.
und.
ments in their possession, by purel
All persons having
such arms
is office which
wise, will do well to bring or send
chicago during
obtain the necessary receipts, wit
sote money.
lay as possible, as a contrary col
i supposed)
ject those found possessed of them
a to the Indi-
tion, and the penalty of the law.
, by applying
Major 5th Infantry, C
ately,
May 23, 1835—-13w-4.
For Sale,
ho is well ac-
will receive
FARM containi
ent. Poquire
scres, situate on
:
Plains, 12 miles west
The farm is beautifull
• Packet
he tollowing improy
er LLEWEL-
comfortable Log Hou
Master, will
40 acres under fence, 20 plougbed,
seengers, dur-
ery of 2 acres, consisting of apple,
en the mouth
ind quince. Apply u4
right or pas
May 20, 1836.-5
J. BATES

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 4 OF 6 =====

Law, and
Storage, Forwarding and Co
ERY,
MERCHANT
• & Co, (ap
first door
Agents for the Merchants
REFERENCES
8. T. ARMsTRoNa, No.9, Contes :
CH,
RoBERT HUrTes, Esq. Albany.
BARKER & HoLT, Buffalo.
OLIVER NEwBERRY, Detroil.
CALVIN BRiTAIN, Month St. Josep
Paoelle and
JAMES B. CAMPBELL, Oulason, ILL.
Also, Wholesale and Retail 1
ill aiso meet
Dry Goods Groceri
PROVISIONS
3m30
300
HUBBARD & C
gaupplies of
Commission & Foru
MERCHAN
Young Hy-
CHICAGO-ILLINO
ases.
GURDON S. HUBBARD,
HENRY G. HUBRARD.
ns Sugar.
do.
/THE subscribers having bee
Fire Insurance
do.
Agents for the Howard Fir
and Cognac
Company of the city of New-Yor
cago and the vicinity, will insure
gainst loes by Fire, on reasonable
July 1.
E. K. HU
TO MERCHANI
and.
PATTERSON, GARDNER & 1
IMPORT AND SELL
China, Glass, Earthern Wa
Coffce.
Looking Glasse
A
T the lowest New-Tork prices,
ly the lowost rate of carriage,)
Al the sign of the Large /
No. 112, JEFFERsON AVENUE, 1
Soap, Can-
which they
The ahove firm being
a branch c
for cash or
sise house at Buffalo, N. Y. (well |
the western country,) under the fir
ner & Patterson, are determined t
article in their line, as lore and on
dating terms as any house in the Uni
The subecribers, from their acquai
i the New-
the various Potteries in England, b
• few doors
ble (by personal attention) to make
store, would
of Chicago.
fiona as Will warrant them in assertil
ware, in point of quality and eleg
i band, and
inferior to any imported.
assortment
Palterson, Gardner
ries,
Looking Glasse
, Hats, 4°c.
P., G. & M. have connected with
CAIL.
lishment an extensive Looking Gl
the follow
which enables them to sell that a
than the same article can be boug
York city. The subecribers will ke
y on hand a hear
stock of CHina,
is'le Cloths:
THEN WARK, and LooKING GLAsSES
simeres and
opening of navigation, will be recei
from Liverpool, heavy quantities of
Intest style and patterns, which me
imeres;
their way to Now-York, and others
(for summer
to call and examine-at No. 112,
Large Pitcher, Detroit.
g:
8wE
Patterson, Gariner
rinta:
eawa Silks:
CROMELIEN, BROTHERS
Foreign Wine and Liquor Esta
l'g Ribbons:
Will open a Branch of their h
No. 363 Pearl-Street, New-Yor
eity, at 127 Main Street, (ne
tc.
sion House,) on the 25th inst., for
ment business of supplying this pl
whole Western Country with super
d Inmp do.;
Rice, Pep
Wines and Liqu
ox and keg
fedarin anı
Ding tobac
They are desirous to have the publi
ted, that from their long experience
i shot, lead,
ness, and of their many Wer tern
who have been supplied for the past
well as from the continued patrone
d Irons:
ceive, they must give entire satinf
ches;
Jeel confident that in opening a bran
they have, will much facilitate Merc
rices,
despatch of their Orders, which otbe:
have to be sent to New-York. In d
bolts,
bove, and by appealing to the publi
knives,
assured that this will meet the views t
All Orders and Letters, POST-PA
ois; etc.
New-York.
punctually attended to, directed to ti
bats.
Buffalo, April 16th, 1635.
ota, (coarac
ogan Shoes;
9ARD.
THE subseriber, who kept the
norocco and
Irens shoes;
Spring» at Harrodsburgh, Ky
r Hate, de.
and late the Washingt
sh, and give
#hlisborough, ., and la
we hope to
sion House in Springfie
alic patron-
CINSON.
removed back to his o
Hillsborough, where he has opened
House of Entertain
for travellers and others who may
ved by the
with a call.
His house in convenier
July next,
fortable; his table will be furnishe
best the country affords: his bar wil
le troops of
ed with the choicest liguors, and his
fore the Ist
be well supplied with forage.
Trat
d to be cor-
e near Fort
rest assured that no exertions shall 1
on his part to render them comfortabl
/ the Act'g.
wist of the
ul for past favors, he hopes to share
ince of public paironage
white,onk,
N. B. His name over the door will
cord to be
de, measur-
for the present.
H. C. BE
October, 1834.—1tC.
of the stick.
*ties will be
By the President of the United
ISON,
N pursuance of law, 1, ANDREw Ja
A. U'mr.
sident of the United tates of A
hereby declare and make known tha
Sale will be held at Danville, in the i
received for
linois, commeneing on Monday, the
prairio hay,
September next,
of August
Lands within the limits.of the unde
for the disposal of
sonight 2000
townships se
L. T. J.
ional townships,
North of the
cand West
prineipal Meridian:
The public
otified that
That portion of fractional townsi
icer at Fort
19.20,21,22, 23,24, 25, 96 and 27.
go, Illinois,
which, by recent wurvey, ia found to
for all Uni-
the line dividing the States oi Indian
n the hands
.
North of the base line and East of:
r accoutre-
meridian:
se or other-
Townships 22, 23, 24 and 25, of ra
em in. and
Township: 22,
as little de-
Townahips 22,
25, 24 and 25, of r
e may sub-
Townships 29,
24, 24 and 25, of n
a prosecu•
Townships 22, 23, 24 and 25, of r
Township 20, of range 9.
LEEN,
Township 26, of range 10.
i'd. Post.
Fractional township 20, of range 1
The lands reserved by law for 1
schools or for other purposes also land
fished, or which may be established P
pre•emptions rigats havo heretoloro
about 125
day of sale above mentioned, will be
o river Dea
f Chicago.
from sale.
The sale to be kept open for two
ituate with
ents, with
on longer.
and Baru:
Given under my hand, at the City
young nur.
ington, this misth day of May, A
erry, pears
By the President:
ANDREW JAC
. .
ELJAN HAYWARD,
Commissioner of the Goner 1.

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 5 OF 6 =====

NEW and Extensive aesortm
most modern and approved mur
sical Instruments, such as Piano Foi
r088s
rant and newest Jashion: Clarionett:
Sine•
saltati, Violihs and Violincellos:
Drums, Base Drums, Piles, Plagile
iP, A. York.
Horos and Hautboys, &c.
All of which will be sold at unus
ces.
The above articles to be found
troit Book Store, and at Jno. B. Pige
Biry Store.
Detroit, Non. 8. 1834.
Wines, Cigars, A
enlers in
CHAMPAIGNE, of the Sillery
/Sherry of various brandsand im
Maderia
do.
Malage; Sicily, Ma.; Port, "Har
carlo; g°c. g°c.
CIGARS, of the celebrated mant
PS
rnando Clark, Havanna, and othen
HUBBARD
Watches and Jewe
J. I. MULFORD,
HAVING I
ed from
and Philadelphi
appointed
extensive assort
Insurance
Clocks, We
for Chi-
Jewelr
roperty a-
comprising sa gi
erma.
BARD.
Not of Bufflo; conting rer
Gold and Silver Patent Lever, Le
lish and common Watches:
THER,
Alabaster and Ebony I5 day Time
strike hourse and half hours:
Curtis and Dunning a 6 day time
Rich diamond, pearl, cameo, and ag
adding on-
Pins; do.
do.
Jet Fingei
Pearl, jet, cameo, flagre and vine F
cher,
Gold cable and curb Ladies' Watcl
Catlery aud Fancy Articles.
Mathematical Instruments; Pockel
Roger's best silver steel Raizors;
an exten
own thro
Powder Flasks and Shot Pouches;
Thermometers; Measure Tapes:
of Gard-
Double and single barreled Fowling
Bel! every
Table and desert Knives and Forks
-
d Stales.
Back gammon, chequer and cheas b
ance with
Snuffer and Trays: pocket books ar
and chess men; Double Mirrors
e been a-
uch selec-
A great variety of dirk, pocket and p
that their
Spectacles.
ce, is not
Gold, Silver, Pinted and Steel Spe
suit any persons eyes.
Mather.
Music.
A lot of good Music Boxes, of diffe
Harmonicas, and many other articl
merous to mention.
heir eatab-
Factory.
Silver Ware.
cle lower
A good assortment over pointed Pe
i in Now-
Table, tea, desert, cream, musiar
constant-
Spoons: Sug
Tongs: Butter K
ASS, EAR-
Indian silver work manufactured ot
and on the
test notice, and as cheap as can be
ng, direct
the United States.
are, of the
Watch Repairin
hants, on
re invited
J. H. M. is determined that no pair
ign of the
spared in repairing all Watches entru
care, on the shortest notice and in a
Mather.
like manner. Cash pard for old Gold
Chicago, May, 1834
: co.
ishment,
NEW GOODS.
une in this
WorD beg leave to inform him
PETER COHEN,
the Man-
tomers, and the public gener
se perma-
he has just received by brig Indiana,
e and the
for sale on the most reasonable term
r and gen-
complete and aplendid assortment of
*8.
Dry Goods, Grocerie
CLOTHING,
c acquain-
the busi-
well suited to this section of the coun
ustomers
kink» of Liquors, at wholesale and re
respectfully requests the peoplo to ca
they re-
amine for themselves, at his store nex
tion, and
low Messre. Newberry and Dole's sto
1 here, as
on south water street.
nts in the
Chacago, Ner. 3, 1834.-49.
ise would
ng the a-
we are
PHILO CARPENTI
the many.
Wholesale & Retail Dr
• will b
place or
AT THE SIGN OF THE GOLDEN MOR
South Water Street, Chicago,
2m5
HAS just received, an
fers for sale, one o
gest and best selected assor
ireenville
DRDGS &
in 1824,
MEDICINE
Hall, in
the Man-
Paints, Oils, & Dye-S
, Ill., has
ever offered in the State of Illinois, c
stand in
every article usually called for at a Dr
Also, a general and well selected asso
Dry Groceries, Croch
avor him
and Glass-Ware,
and com-
Joiners' and Curpenters' Tools, of the b
together with an assortment of Hard
with the
be suppli-
manship. Together with a great varie!
Lable will
cellancous Articles, comprising
Hers may
w inting
800 pairs coarse and fine men's B
Thank-
200
do.
do.
do.
continu-
A select assortment of School Books
Iron and steel; saw mill and cross c
e his sign
Scythe and Snatha: Nails, hoes, sh
NETT.
Spades, sheet iron, stone and wood
Srooms, bed cords and cordage
all which he is prepared to sell at th
States.
cash prices.
From a long experience in the Drug
«sox, Pro-
subscriber can with confidence invite
erica, do
of Serchants in the country, and the
a Public
Physicians, pledging himself that all or
ate of Il.
e put up with care and fidelity
Ist day of
Chicago, June 25, 1834
he Publi
entioned
J. S. C. HOGAN,
of the 2d
12:
OFFERS a Whatsale and Retail, at
in Bouth Water Street, one do
»s 17, 16,
the Post Office,
range 10
• weat of
[uncertain: Dest crockers ays d]
Goods, Groceri
and Illi-
Hardware,
Also-a quantity of 8 by 10
principal
Glass and Sash.
4 doz. oorn BASKETS:
ge 4.
:800-dles Sole Leather:
60
Upper
do.;
gOli
ge 7.
1 doz. Cal and Kin Skins.
ge 8.
-ALSO-
Just received from the Massilon Iron
(Ohio,). 4 tons, superior CASTINGS, c
-Potat and Sager Kottles::
Fol, with and without covers, ase
• UsO 0f
to which
Kettles; Harrow T
45.16
en estab-
STOPES,
s'c.
or to the
which he will sell
excluded
eks and
Boot & Shoe Makin
I Wash-
Til beriber having recently con
D., 1835.
SON.
the above business, pext door to
hen's Store, will be kept
• good assortment of
1 Ofice

===== ISSUE PAGE 4 / PDF PAGE 32 / COLUMN 6 OF 6 =====

sool, shoe weather Sere.
t of the
WN. H. TAYLOR,
and ma-
& Bugles,
n, of ele-
few rods north of Meare Newberry Does
rumpeta,
, Pocket
Store, where may be found a grest variety, «f
as good stock, as can be found it the fe
West," which he offers at Wholerale or Re
tail, at the lowest prices, consisting of
te's Jew-
500 pairs men's coarse BOOTS;
tf.
300 do. do. fine
soo do. do. coarse SHOES;
200 do. do.
rand.
300 do. Ladies Gaiter, Pronella and No-
rations.
do.;
rocco Bools;
200 do.
;" Bene-
do. calf do.;
500 do.
200 do. children's Boots and Shoes;
do. prunella, kid and seal Sees,
icture o
50 do. infant's Bootees;
for sale
Sole and Upper Leather, of fret quality, le
CO.
sale cheap for cash.
.
W. H. T. Will mannfacture to order, ne
the shortest notice, all kinds of Boots tod
Shoes, which he will warrat of the ben of
t return-
ew-York
leather and workmanship.
with an
Chicago, July 8, 1834.
ent of
New and Cheap Goods
ches,
, °.
TIE subscriber has just received from No
York, the following among other atice
at a vari-
in his line, which he offers for sale at Hales;
n oflered
and Retail, vERY Low.
Superfine black, blue, green and brown Brad.
ze, Eng-
cloths: Dbl. milled cassimere and sattines.
Marino cloths, and circassians, of ruina
--to
qualities and colors:
Light and dark Ginghams and calicoes;
;
Col'd Flounees and green and black snortis
le Breast
Gauze, Garniture, and gro de nap Ribbote;
kings:
6-1 and 8-4 Damnank; cotton & linen Diaper
French Muslin: silk and tabby velvet:
Kings:
Chains;
Gents. and Ladies' Gloves and Hovery:
Brown Holland:
istols:
Wollen and Canton Flannels, various kind
Readly-made CLOTHING;
Bleached and brown shirtings and Sheetiag
Wadding and Batting:
Pieces:
Window Paper and Bordering:
4 bales cotton Yarn: 28 doz. palm leaf lus
and other DRY GOODS, both Stapken lon
rds, dice
Warbware.
wallets;
Knives;
Bench, moulding & wash Planes and Proghe
COSSISTING IN PART GY
Socket, firmers, mortice and turners class
acles, to
Knob and sto:k Locks: Brass socket casten,
Copboard Turns and Door Rappers:
Curtain Pins; Brass and glass Kreka:
nt sises:
Table, pocket, butcher and shoe Rome;
too nu-
Norfolk Latches: Butte and Screw;
Italian Violin Strings;
il Cases;
Nails, Swedes Iron, nail rods, mile abd pass
and salt
Scythes, Pitchforks, Tin Ware, Brose, Mati-
ives, d.c.
la Rope, old and young hyson Tea,bon, ial
he shor-
and lurap Sugars, molaams cobe, tibi
ught in
white and browa bar soap, indigo, poni ad
common candles, raisins,
Crockery asd Claw
Ware, de.
JOHN WRIGHT
, 28, 1831.
shall be
ed to his
M'CORMICK & MOON,
orkman-
Manufacturers and Wholesok Deal a
d Sileer.
HATS
26
No. 109 Jefferson Avenue, Detroit
1
HE subacribers keep constantly for sue is
extensive assortment of HATS wi
they can with confidencerecoemse
1d cuR-
and which will be disposed of fe
ly, that
Cash or approvod paper, on a ne
d offers
sonable terms as can be perciane e
a large,
any regular House in the City of New-Fork-
Mereliants of Chicago and vicinity, and rider
are respectlully invited to call and examse lie:
Stock, when they vixit Detroit, and are sachd
their orders will be gratefully recent a
All
promptly exceuted.
il.
He
and ex-
loor be-
kept on hand or made to order, which vil her
house,
comparison in quaiity of materiai, babes i
tinish, de. with any manufactured it De ci!
of New-York.
Fur and Cloth CAPS, constantire bei
M'CORMICK & JOK
Detrait, March 15, 1334.
gist,
Carriage & Sleigh Maling
WE subseribers respectfully ica bec
izens of Chicago and its viraly, ta
they have erected a large and commodiva bi-
now of
ding, for a shop, on Kandolph strel, a en
the lar-
prepared to execute all orders in the Carap
nents of
and Sleigh making business, on tie Dost Th
sonable terms.
0.5 REPAIRING done on short notime.
BRIGGS & HUMPHRET.
Angust 13, 1831.
PRING.
Store.
ment of
ATTORNE
AND COUNSELLOR AT LIR
ry,
And Soliciter in Chancery.
0
FFICE firet doot north from the Transt
re, and
House, on Dearborn-street.
I work-
Chicago. Der. 3, 1334.
of Mis-
TrE ruleribers have just receired upe
Hardware.
OTS:
been offered in Chieago, which they offer is
eral an assortment of Hardware,
DES:
Saws:
sale on the most reasonable terms.
P. PRUYNE & CO.
els,
Chicago, June 9, 1835,
are,
DEMOORAL,
Is published every Wednesday, in the Tons
ne, the
Chicago, Cook co. Ill. on South Water*
se calls
over Mesars Jones & King Hardware Star
ders of
rs shall
The Chicago Democrat is printed on a ap
TERMS.
P. C.
size imperial sheet, and afforded to
Town wubscribers who have their papers ir
livered by the carrier $3.
Mail subseribers, and those who receire tart
s Store
papers at the office, S? 50.
Fifty cents in addition will be charged is s
cases where payment is not made ADVANCE
Papere will not in any instance be sew: l
places where we hare no authorized A geni, S
less the subscription is accompanied by le mot
'are.
Fine.:
..
Any person procuring six aubecribers et
over, and forwarding the money, will be esti
tled to a seventh copy gratis.
ADVERTIsEMENTs. —For I7 lines or ander
$1 for the first, and 95 cents for every she-
quent insertion. A liberal discount will be made
Vorks,
to those who advertise by the sear
Attached to this office is an asortsent of
JOB TYPE, which are inferior to gone in tha
sizes:
Stale. Booke, Pamphlets, Blanks, Handbile,
th:
Cards, & c. executed with neatness and dopeica
AGENTS.
Charles Dunn, P. M. Golconda.
Joseph Cloud esq. Ottaws.
John Colman, P. M. Waterioo.
N. Mobley, Exq. Springfeld
Col. James W. Crain, Pekin.
A. Funk, Bloomington.
P. Co-
Thomas Hartsell esq. Hennipin.
i hand
L. F. Arnold, p.m. Plaiufield, Conk co.
Giles C. Dana, p.m. Peona
