CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — CLEANED TRANSCRIPTION
Issue date: June 10, 1835
Weekday: Wednesday
Volume: II
Number: 8
Publisher/editor: J. Calhoun
Source PDF pages: 21-24
Printed pages represented: 4
Printed columns per page: 6
Motto: “Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.

TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
Historical spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are retained where legible. OCR readings were independently compared using Apple Vision and Tesseract. [uncertain: ...] indicates a plausible but unresolved reading; [illegible] indicates no supported reading. Source order is page by page, then column 1 through column 6 from left to right.

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 1 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 21
==============================================================================
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 8.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 1 ---
Miscellany.
From the Boston Galaxy.
LAND SPECULATIONS.
BY JOHN NEAL.
“Want to buy a tract this mornin'?”

“No.”

“Want to sell?”

“Why—that depends upon circumstances—what'll ye give?”

“What'll ye take?”

“Why, to tell the truth, I don't care much about sellin' to-day”—turning a roll of tobacco in his mouth, and trying to spit against the wind through his shut teeth—“timber land's risin' so fast now, 't a feller can't keep up with it, if he stops long enough to count his money, or even to look at his watch—hey?”

“Why don't ye buy then?” Lugging forth a soiled map and retreating to a passage-way, where it could be unrolled with safety. “Here's a chance worth havin', I tell ye. One quarter of this township's jest sold to a company from New York for seven dollars an acre, and I bought day 'fore yesterday for two-and-a-half.”

“Not alive! I know that are township—every inch on't—I went over it myself, no less than three times, about a year and half ago, when 'twas offered to me at two-and-three-pence an acre, to see if I could make up my mind to buy it at that price—and I couldn't; I'll be darned if I could—”

“More fool you; but why didn't you take it?”

[illegible]

“No timber!—no water!—Why look here!” unrolling the map, and pointing to a part, where a magnificent wilderness and ever so many broad blue streams were laid out, rippling thro' the townships in every possible direction, with natural basins just where they were wanted, mills and mill-privileges, together with a view of the rail-road to Quebec, and a multitude of other conveniences, all set forth in black and white—“Look here friend;—what do you say to that? hey?”

“What do I say to that!—why I say”—drawing in his breath and letting it forth again with a long protracted whistle—“whe-e-e-e-e! don't cost much to make trees on paper—nor water eyther.”

“Oh, I understand ye!” said the other—“you want to buy”—rolling up the map and walking away, with a wink at the bystanders, most of whom followed him to the next corner, like so many rats tolled away by a rat-catcher.

My attention was now attracted by a loud whispering from the midst of another group. Two men were standing apart, holding down their heads to the storm, and talking together, just loud enough to be over heard; one with his back against a post, the other with his hands in his breeches' pockets, and his large fur cape turned up and pulled about his face, so that you could but just see the twinkle of his eyes into which a storm of sleet was driving. Near them were a number of young men, mostly shopkeepers and mechanics, who had been straining their credit to the last cent, mortgaging all the property they had on earth, and all their hopes, and issuing their notes for at least ten times more than they are worth, or are ever likely to be worth—some with, and some without umbrellas and great coats—their clothes dripping, their boots squelching at every step, the wet snow clinging to them all over in patches, and their fur caps looking like so many drowned spaniels. One would have thought by the manner of both parties, that they had agreed neither to see nor hear each other.

“What'll you take for your bargain?” said the tall man, who stood with his back to the post, in a soft whisper which you might have heard half across the street though the wind blew a regular Down-Easter.

“What'll I take?—what'll you give? aint afeard to make an offer, hey?”

Here the young men all contrived to hitch a little nearer—without being observed; all with their heads turned away however—and their collars enough so canted up as to receive the wet snow in their ears. What could it have been for? Not because the two land speculators were trying to get a leetle to windward of them, hey? And then the fur-collar on that side, some how or other, didn't appear to fit so well as they ought.

“What'll ye give?” continued he.

“What'll ye take?”

“I'll make an offer.”

“You will! Wal then, I'll give you fifty thousand dollars.”

“No”—shaking off the snow from his comforter and turning on his heel, as if to go away. But his companion followed and faced him, and the other group revolved in the same way—shawls, umbrellas and all—each with the same side exposed now.

“Wal, now I've made my offer, it's your turn to make yours—if you're any part of a man. What'll you take?”

“Take!—I'll take one hundred thousand dollars.”

“No—but I'll tell you what I will do—I'll sell, seein' it's you, I don't care if I do, for I know its worth two hundred thousand dollars every cent on't.”

“Pho! a likely story that—haw, haw, haw.”

“Likely story!—wal, it's the truth; and to show you that I haint no ideer o' jockeenin' ye, or to what I'll do—man fashion—jest go in here with me to the lawyer's and we'll make the trade right away; and arter that [uncertain: the next several words are obscured], I'll give you five thousand dollars cash, for one half the profits you make on the trade.”

“Why what the devil!”—glancing at the bystanders, who were all staring open-mouthed at each other, and fumbling in their breeches pockets, with a true business like air—“Why don't you buy our lands, if you're so plaguy sure they're a paying concern that way?”

“What business is it of your'n?”

“You may transact all you want? [uncertain: final words at the column break]—But if you aint afeard of the United States, or two large—”

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 2 ---
a ae

nnn TE aD

>i there's $20 thousand dollars! you nee
 count itteyou'll find it all right—now
jgive you that for your bargain, and y
stop where we fre, and not go a step fur
Here was a clincher! The young 1

could stand it no longer. The writings w

drawn, and before night, six of the bystanr

were in partnerships with the ager,
the eame bargain, at a hundred thousand 
lars for what they had scen him pay acve
‘ fire thonsand dollars for.
But who is ‘that man, aaid II think 
seen his face before?
Which do you mean?

The tall man—the seller-—he whose fra
actions have been so heavy this last month

Ob! he’s a New Hampshire manefai
about ix months ago, and paid off his c
ditors at ten per cent ; he began apeculati
to Innds, with op hundred and fifty doll
whieh he had saved, nobody knows hoy
every farthing he had on earth to my. cert
knowledge, And that sum he keeps for
nest-erg now !

And who is the other, pray ?

Oh, he's another New Hampshire blade
supposed to be worth 100,000: dollars nov
never was master of two pocket handkerchi
at a time in his Jife, Oil within the Inst mont
and even now, isn’t the owner of three shir
with the game mark on them, I'll warrant

Av how in the name ofall that is worshi
fui, do these men manage? It appears to 1

‘to _be sheer gambling and cheating.

_ The sheerest gambling, Sir, and the boli

cheating. They buy they know not win
and they care not what—they vever see
lande--they know nothing of the title of 1!
law—they buy only to eell; the leaders
this extraordinary and almest universal hail
cination, were five out of six notorious gam
lers—-all they were worth, before they hi
entered intu the land speculations, they hi
obtained by cards or lotteries,

Of course there are often fictitious sales:

Undoubtedly. What could be easies-—
combination required ; little or no money, a1
ariving market! They give their notes f
three fourths—-pay one fourth—and sell «
the same terms; so that when the whe
stops, as stop if must before long, a!) the:
wealthy men, and all these young advent:
rere, who are turning their backs upon s
regular business, throwing up their trad
their shops, and the little they have bee
earning for years, by hard work and sober it
dustry, will find themselves worth only ju
what has been left of the first payment the
have received, after deducting the first pay
ment they have made—-with theie notes
broad for three times aa much as they a
worth, perhaps for ten times as much, and 1
their prospects in life blasted forever. Wh
sir, five persons out of every six you see, a
engaged in thia business !

Another marino fever, hoy?

Exactly, and [dure aay you ean rememb
—I! can, a8 if it were but yesterday, when jr
diciaus men acturily pawned away the
watches, to buy shares in Don Carlos, a rai
valued at siz thousand dollars,

Of a piece with th> gold region Je«with th
Tulip mania—with the Misstesipi_acheme !-
with the South Sea scheme—ond with tt
joint stock companica of England, when the
actually formed associations for supplyiv
London with milk, and for washing clothe
ona scale that required an act of incorpon
tion, a President, directors, and ever a0 man
golicitors to manage the business! Not man
years ngo, seffling lands was al! the rage f
speculation here, and many men, judicios
calculating men, who knew what they we
about, inveated all they were worth, in the:
very Jandy at 32 1-2 cents the acre tthe
might as weil have thrown their money: int
the sea. So will it be with timber lands t
the last purchasers.

‘Where will this end, think ye!

End!—in the discouragement of all sob
and steady business! in the destruction 
hundreds of industrious young men, mith the
families ; in che overthrow of the public mor:
sense, and in the innoculation of the who
community of New England, with « spirit
desperate gambling—a spirit of rauh, head
long, unprincipled and ruinous advevture-
most ruinous to those who prosper most.=
End, Sir! it willend in making confirme
gamblers and hideous profligates of hundred:
who but a few days ago, would as soon ha.
been caught tipay in a ehurch, as at a billiar
table or ina lottery office, in the present stat
wf public opinion ; and what is even worke =
worse can be—it will end in making thot
sands, who baye held themselves aloof durin
the prevalence of this frightful mania. dicot
leated, and miserable, or ashamed-of the hor
est profits ofa regular business. The who
neighborhoode—uthe whole region of country 
lefiled—New England is no longer what sh
was! Men risk now what is not their ow
icithout reproach, \Vhat they gain is theirs
what they looge i their creditors, But be
ware lawn good character is worth more tha
inoney to a young man, He who makes 10
000 dollars, makes but 600 dollars 4 year.~
Who would sell himself for that—in_ othe
words, give up a regular business that. prod
ced from three to four mes that, as many d
—if he understands the value of charactcrem<
knows how to respect himself—or even fo ¢1
pher,

Historica Fact !—Doring the trouble
in the reign of Charles the Firat, a countr
girl went from Geo. Cross, near this tow
to Londun, in search of a place aaa servat
maid; but not succeeding, she applied. he
self to casry out beer froma brew house-
and was one of those then called tub-wama
‘The brewer observing a well looking girl 
this low occupation, took her into his hous
as a servant, and after a while married her
but he died while she was yet a young wi
man, and left her a large fortune.——The bi
siness of the brewery was dropped, and tt
young woman was recommended to apply 
Mr. Hyde, asa gentleman of skill in tl
law, to settle her husband’s affairs. Hyd
who was afterwards the great Earl of Cla
endon, finding her fortune considerable, ma
ried her. Of. this marriage there was 
other issue than a daughter, who was afte
wards the wile of Georve the Second, al

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 3 ---
‘AO 8, BDL, WEDNE
ne eects

i A Winprau.—A_ short time since
[illegible]
©, enquiring fora man by the n
T lof Woods, and mentionin that a ta
amount of money had been weathed h
by an individual who bad recently. died
Europe. The person alluded to, called
-  our office yesterday, to make en uiry for
gentleman who is Supposed to reside in t
_,  citY’» and who it was stated, was acquaint
"©! with the particulara of the case. He h
the appearance of being a laboring man
farmer. The whole amount to which heb
thus fallen heir, by one of the sudden whit
xd Jof the fickle goddess Fortune, is twenty-«
ven thousand pounds sterlihg.—[ Balt. Re

3-

Incewiovs Rascauity.—-We were j
n  formed a day or two since, by a gentlem
2  SHO saw it, of one of the most ingenio
contrivances, that we ever remember
have heard of. He deseribed it as a shiy
~royal yard arm thickly studded with acyl
;and sword points, butchers, knives, &c. 5
ip such a manner as to cut its way out
every thing, that such instruments will cu
in which it should come in contact. It w
. [found anchored by a heavy weight some 
OF 12 feet below low water mark,immediat
ly below the sweep of the net of the fi
t shore fishery onthe Delaware above Billing
+  port—and it is supposed was set there for ti
" purpose of preventing the gill net men fro
jdrifting with scope of the shore net.» Vi
‘jhave been told that a number of gill ne
_ were almost entirely cut in two. The it
 jused conceived ita very usual “fast,” an
jon the 2d inst. assembled to the number ¢
 forty or fifty to raise it. But so securely w;
it indebted, and the little chance of workin
att with ropes or poles, that their effor'
' would have proved fruitless had not the 3
 lin gsport packet lent them assistance and b
 dropping a chain over the one of its firme:
 blades raised it from its moorings. ‘The ir
ventor deserved a glass of “eag nog,” fo
bis ingenuity, and at least “thitty-nine” fo
his rascality.—[ Woodbury, N. ¥.

 Political.
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVEN
 TION.

From the Baltimore Republican.)

Proceodings of a Convention of Delegate. ag

 pointed by the Democratic Ropublicans in th

several States ot the Unioa, aseembled in th

city of Baltimore, May, 1835, for tho purpos

of nominating eandidates for the officos c

President and Vice-President of the Unite
States.

Wednesday, May 20.
 The mombers of the convention havin,
Jassembled at the place of worship of th
Fourth Presbyterian Church, at 10 o’clock

Mr. Kremer, of Pepusylvania, stated th
objects of the meeting, and on his motion th
Hon. Axprew Stevensoy, of Virginia, wa
unanimously called to the chair.

“lr, Stevenson accordingly, upon takin;

his seat, rose and delivered the following ad
dress :

Te be called unanimously, to preside ove
the deliberations of an assembly so numerou
aad enlightened as this at auch a time, an
on such occasion, is an honor that any ma
might justly be proud of. It would be a
unworthy affectation in'me, gentlemen, if

 did not say that I receive with due sensibilit
this high and distinguished mark of your con!
dence & favor, and shall cherishfit through lit
 with feelings of profound respect and’ affec
tionale gratitude, On my part I can onl
promise an honest effort to justify the choic
you have made by the manner in which the
duties of the station shall be performed, ‘T’
enable me to do this with honor to mysel
and satisfaction to you, 1 shall need and ex
ct you firm co-operation and considerat
 indulgence. :

Although I am quite sure that you requir
no admonition from me as to the manner i
which your proceedings and deliberation
ought to ke conducted I shall be pardoned by
you I hope, in seizing this occasion to offe
one or two suggestions,tor vour consideration
The objects for which we have assem
bled, apart from considerations of per
sonal honor and. character, are of @ na
tnre which especially demand that the pro
ceedings of this convention should not only
be conducted with deliberation, dignity anc
order but marked by a spirit of the utmos'
harmony and union.

We are-here, gentlemen, to. perform 1
high and important duty to our country, Our
venerable Cheif plagislrete, Glowing me

6 of illustrious predecessors, and wi
pr worthy of himself, has: already
made known his determination at the end .o
his present term to retire to the shades o
private life, and a successor is to be appoint:
ed.—As the period for this important. elec:
tion approaches efforts will no doubt be made
to divide and distract the republican party
and put ia jeopardy, and possibly defeat: th

 election ofa President by the Peoplo, i
 their primary ec’ -ges—a result, deeply tt
 be deprecated by all who love their country
its repose, and union. Under.such vers
 utances, we must all be sensible, that
 union of our friendeand an election by th
1 peaple, can only be secured by harmony ani
concert, and by an adheeance to the goo:
- old usages of oar republican fathers.
 The emepdmenis to the ronan bog
 ing to the people this important. election
olen pod, tenlously pressed: ae 5
1] gress and the nation, by our venerable: f'res

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 4 ---
“11 go nnn etaneepeneeeten
DAY, JUNE 10, 1835

al Convention, as the best means of con
trating the popular will, and giving it ef
in the approaching election. “It isin. ff
the only dafence against a minority Presid
one which prudences recommeds, preced
sanctions, and experience has proved to
effectual. We have been sent here fr
different parts of our extended country,
interchange freely sentiments and opinio
and present to the people two of our fell
citizens for these high Executive offic
To do this with effect. and secure the trium
of our principles we must avoid every (hi
like sectional feelings and jealousies, and
willing to sacrifice all personal predilectic
and preferences. We must endeavor to F
concile, rather than create partialiiies,
__ Whatever may be our individuals wish
in regard to the election, however we im
prefer A northern, southern, eastern or we
€rn man, we cannot expect a gratificati
of them, by placing the Technion i the que
tion on sectional considerations. Nothin
gentlemen, can be more inconsistent with
choice itself, than to regulate it by viey
which if acted on in the fonr quarters of t
Union, must inevitably prevent its bei
made atall. Saying nothing of the fatal ¢
fects of geographical divisions, all must kno
that it is impossible to determine the balan
of eventual numbers in the Union, in fav
of any one division. It would be the heie
of visionary speculations to attempt to es
mate the strength of this or that section, 
being superior to any one of the remaind
 eighteen months hence.
Local views, in state politics, may not 
' dangerous, but they become highly so whe
extended to the nation at large,aud ona sul
ject. of this character.

There was a time, gentlemen, fresh in th
recollection of all, when they brought us 
the very verge of a dangerous collision, an
on a question too, much less calculated ¢
enlist state prejudices than this. . The le:
sop we received cannot so soon be forgotter
It should continue a long time as a polit
cal beacon, indicating on what occasions an
to what extent our Union may be put i
jeopardy. Wherever, therefore, it hecome
necessary for numbers to co-operate, individ
uals ought not, and cannot expect to enfore
their own views, but must unite with other
at that point, which most nearly approache
the wishes of all.

Imagine fora moment (by way of illus
tration) that on an emergency, the gallan
crew of a vessel, should disagree about th
course to be taken—what, gentlemen, woul
you think of the sagacity and prudence o
siat individual, who would propose the ex
pedient of cutting up the noble ship, tha
each man might seize his own plank, an
steer for himself;—~I leave the application t
yourselves!’ Democracy, in our country
gentlemen, cannot exist and be effectua
without mutual concession and compromise
and if union is essential to safety, it mus
often be preserved at the expense of some
sacrifices. Oo this subject no argument ear
be drawn, or means employed in reference
merely to the locality of the individuals
The stations are to be filled, and they wh
fill them, should know that their elevatios
has not been caused by their being in thi
or that section of the Union, or their having
been born near the spot where the first revo
lutionary blood was spilt, nor obstructed it
consequence tnerely of their residence being
on the waters of the far west. Far other:
wise. Let the enquiry be, who is he tha
will combine the greatest republican strength
in relation to the nation, and best preserv:
the unity of the democratic party? Who i
he that best understands the principles an:
nature of our government, and will admin
ister it in the true spirit of the conatitution:
Who will carry out the principles of the Jef
fersoniap era, and General Jackson’s admin
istration; an ‘administration which has done
so much to advance the prosperity and hap:

iness of our country, and place it on the no
ole eminence on which it now stands? Suct
men, the candidates of no section, but the
candidates of the people, ought to be sup:
porter, :

Gentlemen, to succeed we must continus
to be united and riglsnt--for it only by
perpetual vigilance that Liberty is to be pre-
served. TER people are as yet victorious
and the Democratic spirit like the Genius o!
Liberty.is pervading the land; but the ene:
my is still in the field and prepared for bat

tle. If his motto be to divide and conquer,
let our’s be union and safety,

This is the spirit and temper in which we
should act, and these tha considerations that
suggest. themselves to m mind. T throw
them out for your consideration; you' will
give them the weight they merit, Let me,
in conclusion, again remind you that the sub-
ject is one, not only highly important, but
‘dear to the pecple, and that it is our solemn
duty to take care that in our bands it re-
ceivesno injury. J ardently pray, gentle:
men, that our deliberations may be harmo-
‘niously conducted, and that the result of our
Jabors may, promote the union, prosperity,
and bappiaess of: our beloved couutry.

The address. was loudly. and_ frequently
apphaated by the assembly, a
the ‘part of the members great unanimity ©
feeling, and a cane) approbation of the sen-

iments expressed. = :

agrre Me. Stevenson took his seat, mays
ers were offered up in bebalf of the the
vention, in a fervent, feeling mane, DY
Rev. Mr. Clark, of this city, at the reques
of the Committee of Arrangements;

On motion of General epdannaere
North Carolina, Resolved, that » commits

‘Satmats.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 5 ---
respective delegations, to prepare rules.
regulations for the government of the C
vention. ; :

On motion of Mr. Hors, of Pennsyl
nia, it was Resolved, ‘That the Pennsyl
nia delegation be excused from appointins
member of the said Committee

On motion of Mr. Joun L. Granay,
New York, Resolved, That a Commit
of one from each State be appointed to 
certain and repurt the names of the delega
of ihe several States who are in attendat
on this Convention. The following pera
were appointed:

Thursday, May, 21,9 o'clock A. M.

The Convention assembled.

Mr. Sawpers of N.C., from the cor
mittee appointed yesterday to prepare rul
and regulations for the government of
convention, made a report in part, accor
panied by the following resolutions, whi
were severally adopted unanimously ;

1. Resolved, That six Vice-Presiden
be appointed to aid the President of th
convention in the discharge of his duties.

2. Resolved, That four Secretaries 
Appointed to record the proceedings of th
convention.

3. Resolved, That the rules of order ;
dopted by the House of Repretsenatives of th
B.S. for its government, be adopted for 1!
government of this convention, so far as th
circumstances may be applicable.

In pursuance of the first of the furegoin
resolutions, the following pentleman wet
nominated and severally elected Vice-Pres
idents of the convention unanimously :

JAMES FENNER, of R. 1 tat V- Presiden

EDWARD CONDICT, of N. J.2d 4

UPTON S. HEATH, of Md, Sd

ROBERT STRANGE, of N.C. ath +

JOUN B. NEVITT, of Mize. Sth **

FRANKL.N CANNON, of Mo. Gh «

To pursuance of the second resolution, th
following gentleman were unanimously a
pointed Secretaries of the convention:

Cnaniys G. Aturnrvos. of N. H.
Jous Cortos Sarre, jr. of Conn,
Gronce H. Poop, of Ohio.
Tuomas H. Brows, of Indiana,

The Convention being organized, Mr
Gratiam, from the committee appointed ver
terday for the reception of delegates, made.
report accompanied by certain resolutions --

tr. G. said that as far aa could be ascer
tained, the number was six hundred and e
leven. He concluced his report by movin
that the delegates now in attendance be en
titled to their seats, and that the delegate
from the territories of Mcihigan and Arkan
sas, now in attendance, be invited to tak
seats in the Convention. The report and iis
of delegates having been read, before any
action was taken thereon,

The. President informed the Conventio1
that a more commodious room had been pro
vided for its accommodation, and that ths
Firat Presbyterian Church had been procur.
ed for that purpose. On motion the Con:
vention then took a recess for one hour and
a half, Gill 12 o'clock

12 o’elock, noon.

The Convention assembled pursuant to
adjournment. .

Mr. Sanpens, from the. commiltee ap-
pointed to prepare rules and regulations for
the governinent of the Convention, comple-
ted his report, by submitting the following
additional resolutions :

4. Resolved, That in taking the vote for
the nomination of President and Vice-Presi-
dent, a majority of the delegation trom each
state shall designate the number or members
who shall give the vote of the state.

5. Resolved, That the delegates from
each state in this Convention be entitled to
‘as many votes in selecting auitable persons

for the offices of President ond Vice-Presi-
dent, as such state is entitled to in the elec-
torial college for the choice of these officers
by law; and that two thirds of the whole
number of votes given be required for a nom-
ination, and at] questions connected therewith

Ms. Sanpers remarked, that this resolu-
tion embraced two points; first, that each
state should pive the some number of votes
‘in the Convention to which it would be en-
‘titled in the electorial gallege: Upon that
part of the resolution, Mr. 8. said he antici-
pated no difference ofopinion, because it was
in strict accordance with the constitution and
law of the U, S. on the same subject. The
second point was, that a majorly of two-
thirds of the whole number should be requi-
red to constitute a choice of the distinguished
individuals to be selected for the offices of
President and Vice-President of the U. 8.
Mr. 8. was directed by the committee to
say, that upon the second point there existed
a difference of opinion in the minds of the
members of the committe, a portion thereot
being of opinion that 9 majority onlyahould be
deemed requisite toa choiee. The commillee,
however, had finally come to the conclusion
that it would give a more imposing effect to
the nomination, that.that nomination should’
be made by a majority of two-thirds of the
whole Convention. He was further author-
ised to add, that the object of this proposition,
of requiring (wo thirds, was not ouly to give
the nomination a more imposing ‘effect, but
also to produce greater harmony and! union,
and to avoid embarrassment. It was to be

med. that no one bad ihe most i yo

desire to frustrate the proceedings ; and pro-
vided. majority should on the first or second
ballot fix upon an individual, it was reasons-
bly to. be expected that the minority wauld
be disposed to yield, and unite with the ma-
jority, 30 as to producs the effect contempla-
ted Up the foregoi 2
the Cony

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 21, COLUMN 6 ---
VOL. Vi.—-NO. 8,

dj Mr. Auten, of Mass., said’ he had the
n- honor of being a member of the committee,

but had dissented from the resolution under
s-  consideration, and had done so upon the old
a~  republican principles. He believed that the
great fundamental pnociple of our govern-

ment was that we should be governed b
of  the will of the majority, and in-an assembt
ej like the present, composed ‘of more intellec.
- j tual power than had ever been brought -to-
s  gether in this country since the days of the
e  revolution, as weil as of a greater number,
sihe maintained that they ought not to intro,

duce a new principle directly, he would #ay,

“Fin the face and eyet” of the constitution.

It was upon this principle that he had oljec-
-  ted. hoever might be ‘the candidate, if
she received the votes of the majority of this
2 convention, Mr. A. would cheerfully sub-
- Scribe to it, and give him his cordial su rt.
1  He again expressed a hope that this conven-

tion would not establish a principle averse
1; to the great fundamental pnnciples cf our
; government, and he therefore moved to as
mend the resolution by inserting the word
“ majority” instead of two thirds.” With
the purest motives in the world we might

have a prelerence for this or that man, and
jit mght be three weeks before a majority o
 two thirds could be fixed on one man.

Mr. PY. Daster of Virginia, made a
few remarks in favor of the origonal resale
tion, and i

Mr. Au.en briefly rejoined.

The question was then taken, and Messrs.
 Saspens, of North Carolina, and Hony, of
Pennsylvania, having been appointed tellers,
there appeared ayes 23], unes 210; 80 the
amendment was agreed to, and the resolution
a3 amended, was adopted.

6 Resolved, That the candidates for
President and Vice-President, shall be de-
signated severally ; the candidate for Presi-
dent Grst, by the ballot or ballots of the. per-
son or persons selected to give the votes. of’
the respective states, without nomination in
convention, and that if'a choice is not made
on the first balloting, the respective delega-
tions, shall retire and prepare fora second
ballot, and continue this mode of voting un-
tila selection ix made,

7. Resolved, That a committee of five
delegates be appointed by the President to
draft_an address to the people of the United
States, or resolutions, to be submitted to the
convention, or both, as the committee shall
think most. advisable.

8. Resolved, That it be recommended to
this convention that its proceedings be open«
ed each day. with prayer, and that the Hey.
Clergy of Baltimore, be requested to dis-
charge that duty.

These resolutions, except the 5th, as a-~
mended, were adopted without. discussion.

Mr. Oscoop, of Massachusetts. from the
committee appointed to. report the names of
members, stated that two sets of delegates
from Pennsylvania were. in attendandance.

‘The reading of the resolution reported by the
committee, “that the delegates now ia at-
tendance be entitled ‘to seats in the conven-
tion,”? being called for, endeavors were made
to posipone its consideration until to-morrow,
made discussion of considerable length fol-
lowed, in which Mr. Kremer, Mr. Bec,
Mr. Hory, Mr. Mixas, all of Pennsylva-
nia, touk part.

Mr. Mites then moved to amend the
resolution by adding, ‘except the delegates
from. Pennsylvania ; and that a committee
be appointed of one from each state to inquire
into the claims of the two sets, and report to
the convention.” This proposition. gave
rise-toa debate, during which Mr. Brancn,
of Rhode Island, expressed his desire that
both sets of delegates should be received. —
Mr. J. Burnes, of Pennsylvania, was op-
posed to this, and after considerable discus-
sion, Mr. Sterricer tnoved, a8 an amend-
ment to the amendment, that all delegates
known as the Hatrisbure nomigation be en-
titled to seats on this floor, ond went into the
history of the sppointment of the two sets of
delegates. When he concluded,

The convention took a recess till 4 o’elock,
in the afternoon.

Four o'clock, P. Al.

The convention rerigroaaie Mi. KreEurea
expressed o hope that the amendment. pro-
jaa by Mr. STEBRIOER would be. with-
drawn, which was complied with, and Mr.
Bee proposed a substilute.

The previous question was called for by
Mr. Ranney, which was secconded and
carried. :

The resolution under. discussion, which
admits ali the delepates claiming seate in the
Convention, and of course entitles both del-
pgations from Pennsylvania to admission on
the Aoor,. was then passed by e large ma-
ority.

Mr, Waris, of Virginia, moved that
in all questions before this Convention, the
ote shall be taken by States, instead of per
~apita, if desired by any member, each State
being entitled to its electorial vote. This
cockation was also adopted.

The Presipent sre + ele fs
everal delegotes appointed by a Stata Cone
rention in ‘Illinois: tt attend ‘the Baltimore
Conveation, ‘slating their inability ¢
ent, and enclosing the resolution
hey were instructed to vote fo
Buren, of New-York, )
dent of the United States, a1
fahnada, of Kentoeky, as ennd
Presklent. ‘The letter was
ale and ordered (a ba: .

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 2 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 22
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 1 ---
‘Jetters from Baltimore, dated on jare little 
National Convention. The fol- tee
the reault of the first ballotim  ine exc

‘had . gislators h

Fon Present, bounty on
) Buren, 265, (the whole numb.) ny longer
‘on Vick Prestpent, ra thes si
johnson, 178 ene nam
Rives, 9 BT bole. ‘The
rrexpondence of the Argus ] nothing 9

i i Vireetire
Baltimore, May 22—5 PLM  Dims is
session of three days, the votes pe tod
een taken for candidates for pre- ) acne
vice president of the U_S., and mente
the unanimous choice of MARTIN  When sh:
ew for the first, and Ricnarp M. jy, and le
for the second, 178 to 87 for Mr. fous, No
apeculalir
af Teg
deliboratie

, a majority of votes, carrespond-
e number from each state, of her  NT
otes, was decided to be sulficient a erred
nation. But such. was the ienach- e so doi
Virginia and North Carclina dele- json of th
have two-thirds required, that 1  proportion
unanimously yielded to them.—  made the
» the first ballot, the above result  the exclu
ed. The Virginia. delegates im- (ve the tin
avowed an unwillingness to sup- "? thee
J. But those from North Caro- ce Enetes
red their intentions to give the wanry Wl
$a cordial support. aiference
satisfaction was expressed by the  clasece,
legates, and by the spectators, at -—and dif
-and there can be no doubt of its  ot the pe
Virginia will come in, ultimately,  1aws cre
, F nose als
he ticket a triumphant support. PO
Stevenson presided in a imasterly  1)
Tse oem
Nine P. Ye Jang of et
ceue has just closed in the best! opposed
anner. North-Carolina, through  or part u
epresentative,Gen. Saunders, came erned to
patriotically in support of the tation fol
[illegible]
yr that state to support it, made a ks th
ting appeal to the Virginians, to
e reputation of their state, and the 
of the party, by a hearty concurs
trast, for
> of the most eloquent speeches ever  of a reve
Gp this country, were made off] redound
a Mr. Holt of Kentucky, and Mr.  the time
Ohio in support of Col. Johnson.  corporat
re cheered enthusiastically, both by Aer :
ention and the galleries. oar man
services of Mr. Stevenson and Mr. ti ive no
were not less important, than the ef  eu)
these gentlemen were brilliant. —
could exceed the promptness, digni-
oud temper of the president
he whole, nothing could be more
g to New York, than the result of
imore Convention, and  trust iC will
lly be equally gratifying to ‘all the
this happy Uniun.””

sm pete meant eee mee senate

people,

Rau
fore last
societie!
niversa
We pu
abstract
the ex
papers.

The
3 ja withont doubt more truth than fie.  Whose
the sentiment we have quoted. © From  Hon to
jest records of an organized govern-  the por
o the present time, a remnant of the  Islands
mily of man, have been actively evi  Smyen
in devising means to govern the world.  Jeans
rat body of the people in every age,  ge7. ,
have quietly submitted to the supre-  :
a few, and thus through the inditler- iM
F the majority, the world has been 7 /e!
dtoo much.” Unjust and oppressive  008 mt
nceived in sin and brought forth in in-jed dur
ike those diseases of the body which  the san
une can throw offethe sing of the fa-  lection
ave been visited upon the children to
and fourth generation. ‘Take fur ex- number
@ laws authorizing imprisonment. for
ey originated in a barbarous age wher  #&°% ©
werful individuals gontrolied the mass  Whou 
ind, and compelled the many to be-  bath Sc
‘wera of wood and drawers of water Ame
y the vicious propensities of a seat of  speech
pots. Scarcely lexs olivus are the 35 Re
h regard to capital punishment—iike lithe N,
sof s Roman Emperor, they were  4, b
in blood, and thousands have died to Mr :
he erimson hue of tho worst of ata-  Mr. T
In England the most petty crimes are  and to
 with death upon the scaffold—-and at  withou
Blackstone wrote his commentaries,  furious
talogue, embracing a preat variety of  (Dr. C
fences, from 100 to 200, had the pun-  tion ia
of death affixed to them, ‘The poor
who purloined a crust of bread to keep ti
ittle longer, and yet a little longer the  ©7408
ack, the wily incendiary, and the “man  YOUNE
I” were doomed to suffer by the hands  and its
xecutioner. The assembled wisdom  about
ation, created crimes without number,  Ame
Nn. punished: the very acts which had  ring th
ynitied as criminal, though compara- $91,5
yenial, in the worst of all forms, by a DURE '
and ignominions death, Indecd the  °Uott
of the penal code of Great Britain, is , 14
ory of a ceries of legal murders from  has in
he heart: shrinke with horror. Blood  bers a
hag been ehed upon the English scat  the pi
swallow up the pee: and flood the  Schoo.
of Lonlon=-while the boasted lawgiv-  cisties
hat great nation have bern permitted  oq g
act their sanguinary statutes to pos-4 9,

ur shame be it said, we haye engrafted  bad a
1. political insututions a portion of the  WETe 
us fruit ofa forcign aristocracy. ‘The  mount
nlaw of England, as it is called, thro’  af Co
fices of a swarm of lawyers, has been
upon os, and, though in many ree om
roealy corrupt, made to confirm to our ring t
nd wants, When we began to think  -5¢¢
for ourselves, in the morning of our f th
ran existence, the people of this coun-  Me
that they were free, and reaosed from  tht *
pofiwar. But while they rested upon  75,5)
urelyefanned by: the gentle.breath of  123,2
the eelfieh, the wnprincipied, enc base, . Ste
ed to cheat them of a. portion of their  been
qught. rights, The great doctrine of  ject 5,
ighte, was absolutely disregarded when ve eo 
t Nations] Bank wa cetablished, and that S
ral time to the present the principle, of  ‘at
Jarntion of Independence tave hardly E
d the tribute of s passing compliment. ed
ontinue ip he ane, $0 Sarniah fourth of ond
rators with a subject for pancyyric,

in every State, more or less individuals  were
be found who seem to have firrotten the  out‘nf
y truths of that invaluable: declaration:  Go
nha. 3 : the?
have spoken of the laws authorizing es M
opment for. debt, and Capital puninb- .
—they still form.o part of our laws, and 
sen cling.to thewe relics. of barbarian; 
2 of their

WORLD 18. GOVERNED TOO
MUCH.” .

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 2 ---
~ opiows than those laws whieh .”
a) privileges upon a few favor
Herein we have erredein giving’) Ware
viduals ow rtain corporate powers p
sion of the many. Mphus our le: aves
se built up. the creatures of their D
very side, notil there seins to bey ENT
‘ny propriety or harmony. in the his own 
—all men are erented equal, The people.
Hed with Banks, which under sa Portt

prnicsx to accommodate the peo-  into fines

tern, the people, however, means

sre nor dese Than tan President,

nd Stockholders,” who are prince:

tted by these ineoroorations direct-  A Bbat
. yi Past

etly. By far the largest portion 
ity are sxeluded— he workiug gular ope
wriners an) mechanicy generally.  sex stree
Fwe buret the boiida that enthesi!  af this ¢
‘ny to be just before we are 2eser- fran a
antil we resolved to resist Hal VEO) tleman
spirit whieh penetrates the haliv  Shion
on, and “broods, a happy,” ever the hich
8 of our public eervanté. Lawes wate
wed to no’ purpose, and privileges  man’s &
‘thout rogard go justicw or equity. boarded
r, mnatend of improving the condi- last thre
people, they are degraded=efor in  while in
ax a part of the community are  water fre
ecipients of legistative bounty to
snof others; these who have “neith: [length o
or opportunity th secure like favors  of tcklit
ves” inust neceasatily suffer to a feluded k
ont by the content, “The nobility  [le imm
Dare no Setter Gian the sturdy yeo- [admimst
stilt the felde—-and yet wide is the  ed no m
retyveen the situation of these two  began te
Shere isa great quif between them  kind of 
caltis the passage from te coltage  few day
ant to the palace of the lord, ‘The j stomach
ed, and etl continue to keep up  became,
inctions in Eagland, which appear eed to e
ous, Batare we wholly blame-  He’ cent
ve we pot divided society into two  when th
nthe one part a Mecedonian phal-  came to
rkhoidera, debtors, and dependants,  he was 4
‘those who can gay, we have no lot
the matter? Yes, the world ia gov-  tinued t
much—our whole aystem of legia-ly choke
he last twenty years has heen hasty  te craw!
went, and we may now oxclnim in  length t
ess of the pact’s Wail sive fits
ns we rosp are of the troe wo planted,  ‘Tae!
us and we blecd.’’ called, t
@ not too late to retrace our steps;  Extn!
of redemption lis not gone by, we he pron
ver We are infeed in the mide  way ort
nion, which if wisely conducted will  by 6n 1
oy our everl-sting eredit, Now ja
to lake a stand against banks and  Det be 
ns generally. Let us review our Mone 4
f laws—purge them of the. errors  Snaxe tr
e grown with their growth, and ne-  for two
give our sanction to any laws whieh  the nal
for their object the happiness of the  Physicic
Hartyord Times. _ [the alm
sician it
his aton
was att
He
fit, w:
pried o
put nes
sible m
ance—
mouth
was f

rous Anniversaries. Week he-
the principal ehuritable and religious
in the United States held their an.
meetings in the city of New York.
pune merely to give av compressed
of the statistical facts furnished by
sanded notices in the New York

American Seamen's Friend Society,
bject is to supply religious instruc- couty
Seamen, has. chaplains employed in fia
s of Canton in China, at the Sandwich  jag,
and also at Havre, Masscilles,! J:
, Havana, Mobile and Now-Or- 0 ain
Receipts during tha past yeas $12, ‘ie
tpenditures $12, 242. Collection ri i
the meeting $419. ed te
dist Missionary Society. Fosty " ly
ions and 4000 church members add- gtd
ig the last year. Receipts during yrs i
‘period, more than $40,000, Cole] Oyo)
ken up $4,000. eas
York Sunday “chool Union. Whole one!
of chibiren in the.eity, hetween the warny
4 and 16, estimated at 40,000, of ni fo
> less than 25,000 are under Sab- a me)
oo) instrection. fers Me
can Anti-Slacery Society. Several ted
made, and among others one by eh ”
. Geo. Thompson, speaking of which me
vy York Observer remarks, “ The ea
nd opprobrious opithets applied by he ”
ompaon to Mhristians at the South, Snipat
rinisters of the gospel in this country F
discrimination, and especially bis debted
(tack on. his respected countryman,  thig ci
x) have cxeited strong disapproba-
he comneunity generally.” On
General Assembly's Board of Edu- schoor
has under its patronage about 700 cighte
en ip varionninutitations af learning, teller
eceipts have been for the last year :
30,000, : eval
ican Tract Society. Receipts dus! stock
year $92,308, and expenditures and a
3; $30,000 sent abroad into foreign
s during the same time. of Ash
American Home Mirsionary Society
s employ 719 missionaries. Mem- A ‘
Jed to the church, through its efforts  over t
t year, 4,500—scholars to Sunday Pave:
40,000-—-names to Temperance So. tho pe
70,000. Receipts during that pe- aoa
8,260; expenditures 382,791. the ev
New York City Colonization Society  vant s!
annual mevting, several addressess ance,
ade, and collections taken to: the a- death!
f more than gee The Journal
merce am! other papers complai e
rican Bible Society. Receipts du- M9.
> year past $100,556—being an in- far Be:
of more than $12,000 heyond those ue
preceding year. During the year] to say
[illegible]
festaments, making in the whole  the lal
6 copies. thoug
ery in Misaouri. A convention has ! rv
oposed in Missouri, having for its ob- the fi
to reinodel the constitution as to pro- nit
tthe gradual abolition of slavery in feat
ate. : city.
iit ateetaterereni ane
racts from a Modern Dictionary.  some

Crave.-—An uly bole in th round,  sever
covers people up, and puete ish they nteel
a», but take uncommon pains to keep

t. Ino
STABLE.-—-A apecien of snapping tur- . ver
: unlit

pest?.—A beautiful fower ther Aour- Pc
nly in secret paces 7

phish snc Sheers igh Pa
ek er

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 3 ---
AW expression vad by am a
: the hear of a‘quatrel: ae ui
wan.—A man employed by the pon: 3
to sleep in the open air. ihe ait
‘y.— An excellent joke. rs
r.—A person who finds work for Psbetl
eth by taking out those of other ieee,
= A-division of affected, prose he een
of certain length. a wees
= From the London Sun: pike or
; ANAKE IN A MAN'S STOMACH. pl sere
turday we were informed ofa sin- t he ea
ation performed on a sailor in Es- ai
the day previous by Doctor Mott agit
vy, viz: extracting a black snake he
p’s stomach ! We called on agen- of t im
ho was present at the time, from throug
» learnt the following particulars has bee
y be depended on as fact. The  appears
me ix Frederick Williams, and he most
Essex st, near the market for the  conelusi
months. About 18 months since, ; tn ¢
; Jdmnica, he was one day drinking dollars,
na spring, ut the bottom of which tioned -
wi several amall hair snakes at the  ruad wi
one or two inches-and from 2 kind srialles
rin his thront at the time, he con- capital.

must have swallowed one of them, The
fintely applied to a physician, whe
‘ad ty hit an emetic, and he bother-  Prove

e about it, Inabont six months he  estimal
feel (as he expressed himself) “a j this tin
awling in his steumach"=-nnd in a  babitan
more the lower. parts, or pit of his
gan to project out, His appetite  ratio cc
rexceedingly keen that he was for-  jyst fj
hearty food four or five times a day. ula!
vued in this state fur severa) weeks, pe bitar
occurrence at the spring in Jamaica  9?
in mii the horrible conviction that  engage
rrying in his stomach a loathsome sonable
The protuberance on his chest con- farmer
increase in aize, and he was frequent-  depot
 for breath by the reptile attenspting  to mar
wit of his Unroat, which sensation at) 95 car
rew the migerablo man into convul- inp a

nrned doctor mentioned above was lumber
d the case described to bim. After  the to:
w The projection on the man’s body,  It is ft
inced the enake to be the cause, and  wi'l at
e opinion that it could be taken out  300 di
sion in the stomach without any  Recap
“the man’s life, But Williams could
evaileti on to submit to this’ opera-

plan was then hit upon to pull the

a themeuth, He partuok of no food

r three days, and the movements of

» were eonatantly watehed by the Ww.
. ‘Towards night of the third day,  cost ol
st distracted man informed the phy-  and ro
attendance, that from the feeling in We w
ch and throat, he judged the snake  which
mpting to craw! out,  will le
mmediately went into a convulsive 
placed on the bed aud his mouth
en. A bowl of warm milk was then
the mouth. The face of the insen- pate
n assumed a dark and ghastly appear-

timate
or of

nd the snake forced its head from his  lend
nd tasted of the milk. ‘The bow!  py gn

utly drawn away, and the snuke a "Ir.
rawled towards it. The friend who! ov:
y now seized the reptile. with his  a t
id suddenly drew it from ils den in

:  would
had grown to its present almost in-  ir jist
size. It was immediately killed,  ants

understand has been preserved by  joo

ras a wonderful curiosity. It meas- pp,
rfeet and five inches in length, is cle, hi
for a bigness from head to toil, and servic
et black color, Williams was with the re
restored and removed to the hosni- Wher
ere he is now doing well. Wel omm
». case of thie man may rerve asa books
toany person who may have acca- yy,
lack his thirst from brooks & springs  ee st;
hy ground. A recent London Me- a, ,,
ork gives an account-of a man suf-
1 this manner from having a live Liz-] Sy
is stomaca for more than two years—  follow
length died in. consequence of the  aster
ive fits into which he has thrown by  boat ]
tile attempting to crawlout of bis 7

port 

SURIscanaccncratienemeenei
ho following intelligence, we are in- ATE.

in
N EB Ta deplo
to Messrs. E. B, Bishop, and Co., of Mern


[uncertain: Astoria, May 23, 1835,] _ that
@ 19th inst, we shipped on bownl the  shoul
t Parrot, for you, two hundred and
v bars and bundles of iron, and twenty-  of w!
egs.of nails, and we have reason to  to gh
that che is lost, ne there was a severe time 
shortly after ehe sailed, She was “tri
to have been freighted in part with live  “2
part of which, together with her boxt  the ls
runk, have floated ashore, It in fenred  gets
crew anda passenger, Col. Humphrey  eight
[illegible]

roner’s Inquest was held yesterday Al
r body ofan Jrish woman named M'- 
who died on Sunday morning. ‘The  ;
given by the jury of inqueat, was, that
pe to her death by a. freture in the
used by a violent blow or fal!.—Prom
ence given before the jury, it appeared M
had been much nidicted to intemper-  Pars
sod, had fur several days befure her  war 
cD in a constant state of inebricty. 1b.
: la Priso
Steamboat Michigan.om'This justly fa- years
boat will make ber first excursion 10  topal
per Lakes for this aeaxon, in a few ered
The merits of the boat and. the ekil-
fa Hoi of her veteran commmander bk
i known to the public. It will suffice  9 Dt
thet according to the custom house  Sout
einent she is the largest steamboat on  in se
8, by some forty or fifty tong, and that  disco
tapy beautiful bonte, have come out
hor, she will be as she alwaya has been .D
ton the Iakes, desir
#9 way we are very much pleased with  day.
ry striking likeness of th fine model, build
¢ hands of Mr. Calch F, Davis of this d
It iz found on the bills of the boat, and esr
ant miniature copy will be aden on  Shop
f the Buffalo Bank Bills, ag -well_ as on build
[illegible]
ate engraving#t.Lb, Trai

One.—We are crodibly intormed that
larga bed of Tron Ore, ofa superior o
, bas been discovere] about eizht miles latel
hia city, by G. Hurd Bag. e
discovery of this valuable mineral ip they
nantities ae hore is reported to be, so

y, wall probably prove a source of). W
the discoverer and proprietor ; and  caus

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 4 ---
cau Impmovement. —A few days erat
‘convention of Delegates, from the ‘
Sangamon, Macon, Madison and ey
, was held at ‘Carlinville, Illinois, 
"of which was to secure the con-
of a Rail Road from: the town of] Mi
d, in Sangamon county, by Car-
y the Mississippi River. Jt may
cted that two years since a charter
ed by the Legislature of Illinois, R]
ga Company t construct o Turn- 
ail Read from Springfield to a point, ===
ississippi_ river opposite St. Louis.
er was made perpetual—sestricting,
‘the nett proceeds of the road to 12
per annum on the capital invested. ;
1a few months past, the attention  nomin
tizens of that portion of Iilinois  at the
which the road was designed to pass,  were 7
called to the subject; and it now  made 
hat after an examination by those  and ¢
erested, they have arrived al the  belong
n that the work can be constructed  erned
pense of between 3and 400,000  party
perhaps for less than the first men- object
um,) and that the business on the of par
enable the company, without the  5,0,
Joubt, todivide 12 per cent on their] jap
allowing calculation is exhibited tol ind t
e correctness of this opinion. Ibis
J that the county of Sangamon at] oy.
contains a population of 20,000 in-  6
3 Macon 3,000; parts of Shelby, And)
ard Tozewel), 5,000; that by a panty
responding with the increase for the as
» years, the District embracing this
on; in 1840 will contain 35,000 in- 
5. Most of this population will be
fin agriculture; and it is not unrea~ cuir ¢
to suppose, that it will embrace 5,000  Frida
“that they will make Springfield the  recor
"their produce, and will send yearly  son e
et, 10 tons each, at an expense of  nent
sper 100 Ibs. It is also estimated,  0.4 ¢
least 10,000 tons of merchandize; in th
&e. will be carried to Springfield on

, annually, at 50 cents per 100 Ibs. one
ther estimated, that 40 pasengers,
ve at, and depart from, Springfield, a fm
'3 in the year, ata rate of $3 each. orih
ulation--- a

),000 tons exported $250,000 yer
0,000 * imported 50,100 ones
2,000 passengers 36,000 Pid

Gwinn, Esq. Engineer, estimates the  him
running cars, wear and tear of same  The
, at 49. percent. or less on tolls.  by tt
 estimate the same’at 50 per cent,  doing
aking the above estimated receipts,  or ai
re 163,000. We have made no es-  lieve
f the business of Macoupin county,  two 
fadison;—the former county contain
w about 7,000 inhabitants; and which -
sing at this time, beyond all former 5"
>. Itis said that: two thirds of the  ted!
that county has already been entered  the!
zrants and speculators. jj ehan
¢ estimates here presented at all ap of ov
ate to the truth, there can be no daubt  to 9
e stock for the proposed Rail Road  ve a
be eagerly sought-for by eastern cap-  cago
It offers inducements for invest-  wou
that they would not be likely to over- hers
uce
convention, referred to-in this arti- pert
ve directed a committee to procure the  whe
s of a competent engineer, and cause  er tt
te to be surveyed as soon as possible.
this work is done, we presume, the
sioners named in the charter willopen 9
ur subscription to the stock. that
cordially wish the citizens of our sis-
é success in their noble enterprise.—  °F ‘
ri Republican. that
appt notes plac
am: Boat Disasten.—We find the  also
Dg pariiculors of the Jamentable dis-  of ut
hich recently occurred to the steam  any
ajestic, in the St. Louis Republican.  has
steam. boat Majestic arrived at this  been
st evening from New Orleans. Weer,
ry to hear, that the boat met with a ring
ble accident, just as she was leaving
his. The Captain had given orders, x
we yaw) which had been alongside  ™"
be taken. astern; and while the crew  ™™
ugaged in this work, the passengers,  Thi
m there was a large number, rushed  able
starboard side of the boat. A short) to-#
tervened: the Captain gave orders to
the boat,’ and as soon as it was done; We
hoard boiler collapsed. Forty passen-  that
ere more or less scalded; of whom  cont
rad died: when the Majestic left Mem-  tat
ad several others were not expected  dou!
rive, ers
of the cabin passengers escaped un-  in n
J; the injury was confined to those on  aati
The second engineer was badly  busi
¢ also

eines to by
RDER IN. THE Connecticut State The

we On Thursday night, 14th inst. it
. : ot tl
und necessary to confine two prisoners
came. cell at the Connecticut State
Two old men, each over sixty ©
of age, were accordingly locked up
er, and in the morning it was discov- day:
nat one of them, named Squires, had  13 

illed by his room-mate, Southwick, by
yon the head with the night bucket. ¥
wick claims to have committed the act  °F
defence, but no marks of injury. were  PAY
ered on his person. toh
eerie hese this
sTRUCTIVE Fine in Boston.—A  sale
ctive fire occurred in Boston on Mon- abo
yening, by which from thirty to furty  Bre

28, valued at shout $60,000, were
yed. It broke aut in,a carpenter’s,,
mn Stetson street, and most of the A
ize deatroyed were on that, Blackstone, Ala
Cross and Salem atreets.—N.. FP.) was
eript. the

eginning haa.been made. in. Boston, of
B foreign’ poupers thome,’ Six were  at

returned to the parts from whence  7%
ste is

vy. are’ printers bills like faith? Be- gra
they are the substance of things hoped  ape
hinga not seen ity

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 5 ---
CAGO DEMOCRAT.
HICAGO, JUNE 10, 1835.

M

FOR PRESIDENT, in the
RTIN VAN BUREN, [2
OF NEW-YORK. State
FOR VICE-PRESIDENT, not 6
SH’D. M. JOHNSON, hi©
OF KENTUCKY,” anew

TOWN ELECTION, aie
sting of the Democratic patty of thir paca
s held at the Exchange Coffee House,  perat
rday evening Inst, for the purposs of hint
ing candidates for the offices tobe filled  No.

oming townelection. The nominations Suit
rularly and fairly made. And boing thus Oe

e trust that they will receive the hearty  the
support of evey man who claime to  strer
o the Democratic party, and to be gov- is th
y Democratic usages. ‘The Democratic ) en!
 thia state have, or should have, higher ed Mi
in view than the elevation or prostration an
cular men? Their struggle should be a sip]
for principle. A ntruggle to place the  adm
inciples of Democracy upon a permanant  Nul
It is astrnggle between the aristocracy  test
» democracy—between the people,—the Uni
nd the fac. Is it not eo? Ifit bo not, Pe
re 10 have no part or lotin tho matter.—  tio 
let it be borne in mind by our friends.  and
t not the principles and the usages of the
he sacrificed to individual opinions, and
al prejudices or predilictions.

CIRCUIT COURT, Ke.
business of the May Term, of the Cir-
yurt.in this county, was concluded on
last, with the exception of making up the
. ‘There were nearly two hundred cau-
ored upon the docket, and two indict-
for criminal offences;—one for theft, and ! i
horace stealing, Tho jury did not agree a
formor caso,“in. the latter tho indictment  jj,
ashed. As this té Judge Breese’s first  per
, it is proper that we should note the  Lo
1, and go faras we have heard, the aniver-  ON
isfaction which he has given in discharge Mr
duties of his office. Couretous and affable, pe
pmpt and efficient—while ho has given no  vy,
uso of complaint, ho has. maintained. the  in 
y ofthe court. On all pointy of Jaw ho  sit
hibited a readiness highly creditable to
sa manof talents and legal acquirement. 
usinesy of the court which was expected  .,,
so best acquainted with the manner of  thy
businose here to have occupied some five  ing
weeks atleast, has been concluded we be-  ter
o the satisfaction ot all parties,in les than  6°
ecks. We regrot to learn from the Judge 
: intends to resign his situation,

a neeneeenteenemmwemin
pPixG,—On Monday Morning last we con-
olye veasels anchored off our harbor, from
wer lakes, all wo belicve Joaded with mer-

doing things up about this time in Chi-
We apprehend somo of our farmers below
begin Lo think it was time for them to

they can obtain merchandizen hittle cheap-
nat any other piace in the country.

TOWN CHARTER.
r readers were apprised some weeks since ed
n act was passed at the late segsion of
egislature of this slate enlarging the pow- ca
the corporation of Chicago, and providing  "
“new election of ‘Trustees should take

prised of the fact that thero was no capy  29
nae charter of the town in possession of in
eraon here. We are advised that no copy po
B yet been received. The clection has on
romLpobed, or adjourned, some how or oth-
ym) Lime to time, for the purpose of procn-

, copy of the law.

We noticed in the Detroit Joural the ope-
of a new House in that city, under the
ot the American Hotel, by Mr. Griswold, Li
will donbtless be very interesting & agree-

ews to travellers who may baye occasion  ™
pat Detroit. Detroit has been far behind

places in the weat in its public Houses.—  ™'
avo a number of good houses in this city—

sito be. The Sau ga nash has been re- H
; fitted up and furnished with peatness and

and go far agit goce, will wo have no T
bo found just the thing, and there are oth- H
hose qualities are well known, But there "
calablishment here suiliciently extensire to

y the demands ot those who resort here for

eee, or curiosity, or pleasure. There is Li
new house building in Kinzio's addition
named we anderstaad, the “ Lake Hous:."
» should be a house about double the size
latter, erected this ‘side ofthe river about
yntre of Lakn Streot or in that vicinity. H

ca

Wo invite public attention to the sale of
n the town of Marseilles, advertised in this F
paper—-to take place between the 12th and a

at.

sripvacinnradsianttamnnandit br
hat with the court and other things fortwo) A:
ree weeks past, we have been too busy to; fin
‘hat attention to the paper which wo ought] A;
rodone, Oar readers must bear with us T¢
week alao, and perhape another for the Land it
and tho speculation in town lots, keep one  se
an close to the desk as his honor Judge
'» Court, wi

o Campaign is opened in Tonnessoe.—
Nashville Union of the 22d informs us,  ,
Col. Polk addressed his constituents in
ry county on the 2ist, The Courthouse P
crowded,“ Ho: divcussed and examined  *!
Presidential question st length,"=—There
perfect silenec, except occasional marks
probation, during tho whole speech ; and  th:
3@ conclusion, a round: of applause. It) Ps
together just such o triumph as attended  9,
ffort on the Bank question two years ag") ‘p,
@ wamo place, -A great number gathered
1d him after he left the stand and con-
beeps a my alliog on bits to print Pk T
Dy BC, ame 58: consented to publish i.
Il be reco) that Mr, Polk was not the

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 22, COLUMN 6 ---
the Signers, along with
nemorable Letter utdreset Croekent
Richmond: Engviner, us
a Ne Engviver, ge
tis Vas Bunn.
‘onal of history, settled 18 thin may
Greater and inore rn the 9
it gentleman? Ww
8 a federal Paper w
en been lowded with
er the moat grees
Vy and imelice could ne
8, Where? Yep elvan Be
y the mont unprincipted “ We hn ex.
> we find Mr. Van Buren ge
and thereby endeavoring ne ‘ening hy
nt Did the assnults of fartion rou) Sue
shrink trom a faithful discha a
He has unformly pursued THe of dnty
: ; ¥ SU0d the sate of 3
and independent course, with that enn
r his country’s pron, which § mt Stile
‘terized his public lite, What rides
puntain whence rises the ee ye
18 designed to blact hie nroepene pe 4
hearts of those who manage hey ie
0 our liberties, the U.S. Banka
ainers, a raisershle eabal of digg the
ico seekers, Jatwith what jg bee
Wiy, forsooth, he count: panees a2
tis the measures of the Preeent pes tee
NStrAtON=he iB hostile. to tho Ig 2 ;
fication, and every thing calcyiy: ded
ny the prosperity oml harmony fs 
beche considers the interests cf thee 
primary object, and that of .
[illegible]
agician,” in other words, a man of taleens
discretion; and this is construed inne
by which men as Dull Green, i v
, the notorious Webb and otheas of ifs
v2 Such is the amount of ther ares,
brought against one of Anierica’s ict
1, gifted and consistent sone: one whee
cerning people have already honor
tion to the record otfze in their 9:
hom the highest and brightest ny
estined.—.W. HL Patrior,

ptt

san
bare.

Ue peg. 

arin 

ae Senate that commences ity sea.
will present netrong democrntic tn
democrats will gain one in Counee
n Oliio, one in Indiana, one in Now) Cy,
pond one in Alubama, with a frp 
of gaining ong in Meryfand and on
shana, wit scarcely a possibility of f
WoMr. Leigh follows the Cyne
Rives, we shall gain ore in the state a
Next session, which will give the aly
OW egan jority. Oa all party oy
President will now have the ag;
full Senate. The prospects of the opr
n are tenly very fiatteringef,  *

ied

he federalists object tag N
ion, because they aay itis an
rol public opinion, But all
conventions for the purpose of w
Stare officers. Ifit te nceessary ina
tory to hold conventions to cats
entrate public opinion, thea its
ps0 ina durge one where sectional
intervene, The princip's is the s
yense, But when did ever the pracy
precepts of the federal party cones

t appears, by official documents,
in the last ten years, the revenue
e of Louisiana hos been doubled, its pe
tion trebled, and_ its resources and cmd
ce quadrupled. Probably that state sit
time flourishing: more vigorously thin:

other of the whole twenty-four Si
erstands her own interests, ands
ke upon the subject of her interna
ce.

FROM EUROPE. :
The packet ship Canada, arrived Movi
ning from Portsmouth, whesce #
mthe 20th April. She brag
ce of the re-organization of tte be
net, ut the head of which apr’
e of Lord Melbourne, Premier; ta 9
of the ministry consists principally
nbers of the Grey Cabinet. Lod
ounce the reorganization on the 18be
the House of Lords, and stated tat 
cy of his administration would betocany :
the measures of Reform commence: bY
Grey administiatian. 4
he following is the list of the se7 med
rt
“irst Lord of the Treasury, Viscount Mey
rne. . : Fi
President of the Courcil, Manus *4
isdowne. a
‘Secretary of State for the Home Dept
it, Lard John Russell
Secretary of State for the Foreign
it, Vircount Palmerstoa. : i.
Secretery of State for the Coates, ™
n. Charles Grant. sl
‘hancellor of the Exchequer, Rigi!
ing Rice. ‘i
seh fe of the Board of Contre, Rgsg
1. Sir J. C. Hobbouse. ry
“ipst Lord of the Adaaralty, Lord A

Doatte

*haneellor of the Duchy of Lancastt

d Holland. .
ivy Seal and Woods and fers ¥
nt Duneanon
secretary at W ;
secretary cf the Poste
». C. Poulett Thomas Fs
aTeR. —~ HIGHLY [portant
Nee. The packet ship
Muesday morning with
Tuesday morning + be reat
he 2th’ Apri, which ci baths
ight by the Canasla, of the pas + Pea
eriean Indemnity Bill ee sh
aterad >
J passage was taken on SRE ig
ab the very large vote of 259 3% sf
uy Oy th 4 precise

The bill carried ok perth Ji

ar, Viscount Howice
of Trade,

as reported to the
sal amendments were UES"
tian,) with the excephod a re
ch was not opposed by mak,

4 that no part of the att Ast
the ‘government of the Teal

 have offered an pore? deal a
the offensive passer? eae :
ident’s message (0 Cong soe j Apt
‘he Dablin Weekly Mess pee la
expresses the Opinion TY criaues He

Afr: Livingstom © neat
* valk now return te Ww ge
is

3 O eas passed ©

fall that has pa
By aes is it likely tht age Ug
sident. + from

visit Paris 88 Am a
aS ical « gigpatcbes DY OE
ublication of bis page ies Fi

congress bas exposed

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 3 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 23
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 1 ---
vat too fully to render bis
Prep gore eable either to Louis
oe cae jeading members of his cabi-

al pxcit at ALGIERS.—
ante me that letters from Ale

The Port Pas announce a second action at
en Wbetween the French and the Be-
es which the former were defeated,
ie Hed to retreat. Gen. Bro is said
on ded and bis son to have been kil-
aes seces of cannon were left in the

é pal enemy, Algiers, therefore, is
at lid and valuable a posses-

pane len: ‘
ot geet dread the French have

resent it. a
at to ae Valier, the Minister of

mea the oth, for the army of
Ne, ie * aati ia named Generalissi-
be Ned with unlimited powers, the best
on, Ware et an end ta the rebellion, Mar- 
ls Rosa has declared that 820 con-
ne ee about. to be suppressed, and the
ae applied to extinguieh the national
a at Indic By the arrival of
fee Be hoe Capt. Bogg at Norfolk,
of ae heen received from the Island of
nh to the gd instant, forwarded to us
: ip fom the office of the Herald. The
+ : *e Chronicle or ihe date, gives very
se gccounts of the sugar crop, Wu
favor wierd much from the Provalonce
‘nds and beavy showers for. a weel
cfg Chronicle states algo, that the
eat ceahip syetem does not work well, as
i with former times. Estates that
dp from filteen to thirty hogshends per
week do not now produce half their uaual
* ‘itr, The cane-ily has algo heen very
Verocive this year--eo much go, on some of
ee iaward estates, that the owners think
eral of giving up the cultivation of sugar.

ted that the export from the port of
te alone will be two thousand hogs-
wads loss than the average of the Inet ten
vers, and from the whale island, three or four
hyustnd bogsheads leea. The rum crop will
eouree be emall in proportion. Com. Id,

Professor Strave, a German, has publish-
ola pamphlet to prove there will not be any
severe winter for the next hundred years!

pow newman

Don Miguel, ‘the ex-king of Portugal, is
stid to be living a retired hte at Rome, upon
the very small allowance of £200,000, about

a million of dollars, per aunum,

PROSPEC
OF THE EXTRA GLOBE,

The undersigned propose to issue the first
number of anew series of the Extra Globe,
on Monday, the 25th of May next, and to pub-
tosh it weekly for six months, making twenty:
six numbers; the Inst to contain an index to
the whole, It will be printed on fine double
royal peper, made up in quarto form, like the
Extra and Congressional Globes published by
us last year. The 26 numbers will make 416
qaatto royal pares,

twill contain the principsl original articles
ofthe Daily and Sem-Weekly Globes, foreign
ond domestic news, notices of public meetings,
the elections, and public proceedings in every
state 1a the Union, in relation to. the canvass
for the next presidency=-1 contest which the
alcstions of the present year will go far to

The firet number will contain. the proceed-
ings of the Democratic National Convention,
tobe held at Baltimore on the 20th of next
moath, An excellent reporter has already
been engaged to report the proceedings of the
Convention, and the epeeches which may be
made on the occasion, : 

We request the favor of those frienda to
show this prospectus may be sent, to cireu-
‘hte it for the purpoxe of obtaining subeenbers,
i hy ‘the a will be sent to the news-

atcopy this prospectus.

Sslveribers should forward their names in
SaeW reach us before the 25th of May. It
they donot, we may not be able to furnish
ilea with all the numbers: because the work
4 ptatso low a price, that we cannot afford
eat any numbers that may be exhaust-

Tams Onn dollar per copy, in advance ;
“2re9 copies will be furnished for ten dollars,
“Fenty two copies for twenty dollars, and s0
a rt Proportion, :

_ J® price of this paper is so low that we
aida 6 oyenaccounty with those who
ie i ort, Therefore, no attention will
hs fo say order, unless the money acenm-
eatues a2, . BLAIR & RIVES,

CORRECTED WRKLY,

i, -
ad Meal bhl 2275 a 3 00
Super fis bbl 10 00

ne * 5800
Hichwhent four” pone,

beige 3h meal bush 1 Ga 156
Com ,
we! mate

Bovisiog u a 6
Pret, frown lb 4a 6

do galt mews bbl 10 OO all 00

de urine 9 @
Por, tess no. 1, a1) o
no, 16 Ww

One hog * 44 00
brine "42
tried beef eae
i re ae
§ bbl § o
Lary (OP * * ; %
Cheese: .
wee ib Wa 12
hite beans bush none.
Tow otalors " 10a) 0
Hates, ‘ety " ; ee
Hties. box tallow 24
ig Maen: , eed
Tweed Ln)
¢ 8
= iG * ft = O0a29 4
, penta leugth ny 5 - ° 6
Bion! H 5 00 9 6 00
lame’ cord 6 a 6 50
Weas, OT 75a Bs
a : cord Qh a

ituatian ag clerk. in a eo

hunent, b a
Fate, and ect” Reaeral business forthe leet

Meer ey wane £904 testimonials

* as toe
Boer, “010 E. B. at the office of :
wa Poy Es S88,
"F Jong th? CORSignment

JONES. KIN
i ie NG & co.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 2 ---
[uncertain: Several short notices and proper names remain partly uncertain in this column.]
june 4 Sch, Liewellyn, Clark, St. Joseph.
" $ " Indiana, M’Queen, do.
"5" Swan, Dancan, do,
"6" Atalants, Shepherd, Buftalo.

7 Brig John Kinzie, Grover, Detroit.
"7 Sch, La Grange, Chanchois, do.
"7" Globe, Perkins, Baffalo.

” 7 ” Benj. Franklin, Blackley, do.
"7 ' Fasex, Bassett, Backots Harbor.
"7 * Liewellyn, Clark, St. Joseph.
"7" Agnes Barton, Ludlow, Buffalo.

"7" Laporte, Chandler, do,
"7 Oregon, Howard, do.
"7 ” Navigator, Thorp, do.

7" Hiram, Rathbourn, do.
"10 "* Livwellyn, Clark, St. Joseph.
"40-7 St. Joseph Burnham, Detroit.

Wanted Nnmeriately.

N apprentice at this office to the printin

wsincss. A good opportunity is ofore:
y an immediate application.

May 20h, 1835.

JAMES GRANT,
ATTORNEY § COUNSELLOR AT LAW
Chicago, Mlinvis.

Offiea in the Store of Uubbard & Co,
LEFERENCE:

Svypas, Jacksoy & co. 2 4 y ‘
Brows & Hoye, .
&. aed & co. Buffalo.
~ R. Doan. °

‘ Core & Porrer, ; Detroit.

JOHN DAVIS,
IPRLIM- BOLD ROTEL

NORTH WATER-STRERR. .
CHI ca GO, ILLINOIS,
Po PROMIA & CD,
AVE just received their Spring supplies
me Grocenies, a8 follows:
50 Chests, half chesta and catties Young EH.

jon Tea. E
2 cheats Imperial do.
Qe” do. do, in cases.
Qo black do. fine.
3” unpowder do.
12 hhds. St. Croix, and N. Orleans Sugar.
20 bbls. Loaf and Lump do,
2 boxes do.

4 bhds, West India Molasses,

16 pipes and half pipes Seignette and Cogn:
dandy.

G pipes Madeira Wine.

1L& ahalf pipes do. old and fine.

2 pipes Port do.

2°" Red do.

10 qr. casks Malaga do.

6 baskets Champaigno Sillery Brand.

Vhhd. St. Croix Rum.

2 pipes Holland Gin.

GO bays Laguaria and East India Coffee,

40 mats Casgia. _

1 case of Cloves,

3 tierces Rice.

40 boxes Raisins.

3 bbls. do.

Currants, Pepper. Spice, Starch. Soap, Ca
les, Ginger, Sal Aeratus act, all of which uh
ffer tothe public unusually low for cash
pproved paper.

Chicago, June 5, 1835

ALG, SLOTILN Gs
Boots & SHOES,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.

ae subscriber ig now opening a heavy 4
sortment of the above named articles, 
South- Water at. one door from Dearborn atres
vhere he intends to keep on hand a large 3
orlment of the named articles: and will he 1
eiving additions to his assortment every 15
10 days, through tho erason.
‘Traders are respectfully requested to call a
examino for themselves.
2 JOUN HOLBROOK,
Agent for the Mannfacturers.
Chicago, Jane 10, 1835.—8tf

re subscribers having taken the Ne
Store, in La Salle street, a few do
South of Hubbard & Co's. brick store, war
reapcetfully inform tho inhabitants of Chicas
and ite vicinity, that they have on hand, a
intend keeping a good and. general assortme
of
Dry Goods, Grocerics,

Hardware, Crockery, Boots, Shoes, Hats, §

AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Thoir assortment consists in part of the folle
ing articles, viz:
Ory Goors.
Blue, tack, brown, green and invis’le Clot
Black, blue, dra and mix’t Cassimeres s
Sattinetts; plain and striped;
White aid brown Drillings;
Molakin; cord roy; Rowen Cassimeros;
Blue and figured twill’d Jeana; (for sum:
Clothing.)
French Bumbazines; Bed Ticking:
French, English and American Prints;
Black and col'd Italian and Grodeswa Sill
Figured do.; printed Musling;
Robbinett Laces; Gauze and Lieut’ g Ribbe
Fancy dresa Handkerchiefs ;
Linens; Muslins: Checks;
Ready mado Clothing, ete. ote, ote,

 Groceries.
N. O. and P, R, Sugars; loaf and Inmp 
¥. Hyson and. black Teas; Coffee, Rice, I
per, allspice, ginger, chocolate, box and
ynisina, starch, sonp, cavendish and plug tal
co, segars, snuff, lamp oil, port, Medaria
museat wines, tnustara, powder and shot, 

ete. etc, ete,
Tharoware.

Log and trace Chaina: Naile; Sad Irons;
Shovels and Spades; Hoey; Scythes;
Steel yards; Shovels and Tonga;
Ter Kettles; Traps, cow Belle, Vices,
Anvyils, Axes, trowela, files, rarps.
[illegible]
Knives and forks, spoons, pocket knives,
Looking Ginsses ;
An assortment of Carpenter's Tools; et

Boots, Bhors anv Wats.
Sewed and pegged and nailed Boots, (¢
and fine) men’s and boys's heavy brogan St
Jow quartered do.; ladies prunella, moroccc
[illegible]
also, fine and common beaver and fur Hats,
As we intend to sell cheap for cash, and
our whole attention to our business, we ho
merit and receive a ahare of the public pat
age. MAGIE & WILKINSO
Chicago, June 11, 1835.84. fee
Scythes, Cradies, &c.
DOZ. Graas Sey thea;
f 4do. Cradles and Scythes;
f 26 doz. Scythe Snaths;
26. '' Hay Forks;
: 6 * Manure do.
" 12" Shovels; 4 doz. Spades;
[illegible]
dune 9. FP. PRUYNE & C

; Hardware.
pe subscribers have just received as
Mm eral an assortment of Hardware, &
teen offered in Chicago, which they oft
- sale on the most reasonable terme.
pee P. PRUYNE & C
" Chicago, June 9, 1835.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 3 ---
oe Lost.

> EN my store and C 1. 0:
B house, a di or slide toa aisar Cand
Stick, which. will. bo of no use to any pers
but the owner. The findor will confer a thy
by loaving it with mo at my store, and be libe

ly rewarded,
_ Chicago, June 50h, jase H. MULFORD.

Strayed or Stolen,

N the 24d of May, A Chestnut
hone 8 years old, seventeen Warde hig
a saddle mark on the leit side of the back, a st
on the forehead, with marks of the traces ay
heseehing on tho sides, shod all round.
hy one returning said horse to the aubserib
shall be handsomely rewarded
ble charges paid, 7 pani and a ean
J. K, BOYER,

Chicago, June Oth, 1835,

 Nails and Spikes,
“ie ag Nails, assorted sizes,
lo. Burden 7 i fr
Fite? lok, oe a patent Spikes, fro
_tfune 9. P. PRUYNE & CO,

een tnenepttp

Potatoe s.

Poros JONES, KING & CC,
Chis.

I BOXES pen Glam, from & by 
June 9, 18:5, oe

Mackerel.

BLLS. Mackerel, No. 1, and No. 2:
June, _JONES, KING & CO.

FEW. choice Double Barrel Gung, at
dune 9. JONES, KING & CO.

Patent Medicines, &c.
6 GROSS Lees Pilly; 1 do. Scott's pills;
1 do. Dean’s Rheaumatic pills;

1 do. Thompson Eyo Water;
L do, Seudder’s do.
Bateman’s Drops, Godfrey's Cordial, Hari
and British Oil, Opsdildac, liquid do. for s
b P, PRUYNE & CO.

Y june 5, 1835,

arteenetneynineunsninei antec ee
WELL selected lot of choice Perfum

June &, 1835,
R. Scudder's colebrated Acoustic Oil, ac
y tain remedy for deafness, for sale by
Price $1 per bottle. P. PRUYNE & CO,
June 5, 1835,

KEGS Cayene Pepper: 100 lby. gun Myr
10). Lotelia: foe sale by ee
dune 5, 1835. Pr. PRUYNE & CO
 fated Oils, paint Brushes, white wi
brushes, Logwood, Nicaraugo wood, ea
wood, etc, for sajo by P. PRUYNE & CO.
June 5, 1835,
IGGING, cordage, twine, marline, 
chorda, 22 bales Oakium, caulking toc
sail needios, paling, pitch and tars
June 5, 1835. PL. PRUYNE & C3)

Boots and Shoes.
A fow boxes of Boots and Shoes, warrant
coarse, coarse fine, and fine, also wom
and childrens Boots and shoes, for sale by
P. PRUYNE & Co
June 5, 1835.

"1@ » Doz. Brooms, for sale by
P. PRUYNE, &Co.
June 5, 1835,

a eye ener seamen er

Drugs & Medicines,
EN Fall supply of Draga and Medicines,
3% been this day received by P, Proyne
Co. whieh they offer low to practitioners
Medicine, or to country merchants.
June 5, 1835

Fine Chemicals.
Ounces Superior French Quinine, m
Ged ufactured by the celebrated chem
Deiombre and Levallisnt of Paris,
10 gros Jodine.
5 Hydicodate of Potash.
5 °* Sulphate of Morphine.
10 Iba. London steam inill, blue Pill Mass
Extract Belladonna.
Extract Hop.
a Cicuta, oct. for sale by
P, PRUYNE: & Cc

™. for sale. P. PRUYNE & CO
ALPIi's celebrated Hygcan Pilla; Blo
® good’ Elixir of Health; Swaimes Pai
Important Public Sale.
ULL be gold at public auction, at Th
Auction Room, Dearborn Street Ch
0, on tho 12th and 13th of June, 50 of
‘own Lote of Marseilles, also between the 
and 20th, 50 other Jota in the aforesaid to
Thia town in about sixty-five miles froin
er cago, and is situated uponthe bank of the gi
rapids of the Illinois river in the centre of
Salle county, and at which place is the mos!
tensive and finest watéy power in the ¥
woatern country, and the only one in the w
extent of the Ilinoia river.” ‘The site of
town is.as handzome as can be well imagin
rituated upon a smootho prairie, gently des
ding towards the river—skirted with a stri
timber land at tho back of it, and comman
a view of the river for ten or twelvo miles.
country around is rolling prairie, beautifull;
terapersed with groves of timber, with a #0
p*  rich ag can any where be found, and is well
of  terod and healthy. The Michigan and Illi
c-  Canal will pasa through this town, and it i:
nd  juatlee to say, that of the various works of
d,  ternal improvement in the United tates
will bo the most important. Immediately is
vicinity of the town there is abnndance of's
coal, geod clay, lime atone, fine stone for’
ding, and sren ore has bean found near the t
and is believed to be abunifant. Upon thees
sive water powor at Maracilles, will centre
great flouring. establishoenta that will be
quired by the wante of the country, wl
when tho canal is completed, will wend A
hundreda of thousands of ba:rele of four to?
York and other markets. Here will like
contre extensive manutacturing and mec!
cal establishments, and perhaps no place it
ree  Western country, now actiling. presenty a
 combination of extensive local advantage
aT may be found at Marseilles, and itis bi
" iI worth of the attention of millers, merch
ve manufacturers and mechanics, to examin
ive important advantages comprised in the loc
sto  of thistawn- pp, WOODWORTH,
[uncertain: dateline illegible]
VARYBD, -

ad

i

‘Teen; for sale by P. PRUYNE & CO,

ee LUM OEELER & c OMMISSI
MERCHILLNT,

 aceive all manner of Mercha
¥V ne onaignment, and dispose of th

y according to instrnctic
me , Gaede forwarded to the interior

despatch. Chicaga, June 4, VES.
), HENRY MOORE,
“ ATTORNEY & COUNSELLOR ATL
and Solicitor in Cheacery, 
0°! (OPFICE in John H. Kinzic’s new buil

NCE TO :

for REFRRES Josnen Brony, Cambridge, i
Mewes. 4. A. Lawarrce & Co. bapa
), Hon. Enwaap Bares, St. Louis, Miseourt,

Chicago, tune 2, 18.7.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 4 ---
ident of the United States.
 ‘parsuanee or law, T, Anoerw Jacksow, Pr
 ML sident of the United States of Amenca, ¢
 hereby declare and make known that a Publ
 Sale will bo held at Danville, in the State of I
 linois, commencing on Monday, tho 21st day

September next, for the disposal of the Publi
Lands within the limits of the undermentiong
townships and fractional townships, viz:
. North of the Base lino, and West of the 2
principal Meridian: "
. "That portion of fractional townships 17, 11
19, 20, 21, 22. 93, 24, 25, 96 and 27, o! range 
. which, by recent xurvey, is found to lie wost.
 she tine divtling the States oi Indiana and Ill
now,
-_ North of the base line and Fast of 3d princip
ei xcariat bo
‘ownshi ps 22, 28, 24 and 25, of range 4.
Townshins 22, 23, 24 and 25, of. ate 5.
Townships 22, 23, 24 and 25, of range 6,
Je Townships 22, 23,24 and 25, of range 7,
Townships 22, 2, 24 and 25, of range 8,
Township 26, of range 9.
. Township 26, of range 10.
F factional township 20, of range 1).
The lands reserved by law for the use’
.  schools or for other purposes,also lands to whic
pre-emptions rights have heretofore been esta
ished, or which may be established prior to ‘th
day of sale aboye nientioned, will bo excluds
from sale.
The gale to be kept open for two weoks ar
on longer.
Given under my hand, at the City of Was
ington, this siath day of May, A. D., 183
y ANDREW ‘JACKSON,
By the President;
a “Ligay Hlaywarp,
Conmissioner of the General Land Offic

NOTICE TO PRE-EMPTION CLAIMANT
Persons claiming tho right of pre-emption ,
any of the aforesaid Jands, are required to pro
the same to tho satisfaction of the Register ai
~  Receiver, prior to the day of sale.
Grscrat Lasn Orrice.
Oth May, 1835.
en
DR. J. H. BARNARD,
AT THY SEW-YORK HOUSE, LAKE-STRERT,
n ENDERS his professional services to t
° inhabitants of Chicago, and its vicinil
and hopes by his attention and assiduity tom
it a share of public patronage.
~ Chicago, June 3, 1835.—7.
Quinine.
ROTTLES Quinme, for sale by
Jane 3. P.. CARPENTER,

ady Made Clothing,
sale; a well solerted asynrtiment,
3. Pp, CARPENTEL

Cd :

On Consignment,
SUPPLY of Suranuc IWindore Glass, a
i Reteood crown Glass, which will be x
atthe manufacturer's prices, with the additi
of freight. Tho last article is said to be. suy
rior to the Boston crown Glass, in cloarne
transparency and strength, being cheaper a
stronger than cylinder pas ea
PHILO CARPENTER.
Chicago, June 3, 1835,
. New York Cheap Wholesa
Clothing Warehouse.
= MILE subscriber has on hand, fresbly may
factured, an extonsive and complete st.
, of CLOTHING that will compare in style:
19 prices, with any catablishmont in the count
Aa thisis one of the oldeat of the large
tablishitents in the city, the subscriber has by
able, from long experience, to make great.
 proverments in tho quality and sizes of his goo
The articles will all be sold ata small advan
on the moat liberal terms.

Sw7. F. J. CONANT,
- No. 133 Pearl-St. (up stairs) Nae- York

<nlbaneiniene systemic rere
aa . To Rent, A ‘
A HE handsome and ‘convonient Dwelli
of tlouse, lately erected by Mr. Rezigue,

Kinzie's addition, For terme, ee a, A
“ Sune 3, 1835,—7. Ee ne
n= Horses! Horses!!
te ANTED immediateiy, fifteen strong w

Horses. They cree ne aonind Sikh 4
in years; for such the cash will be paid. «
ae ance ele SOUN T. TEMPLE

Chicago, May 2, \BI5.—-7,

OTACE.—Tho notes of tho Bank

a” Michigan, and Farmers’ and Mechan

Band of Michigan, at Detroit: also the note

all the safety fund Banks of tho Stato of N

) York—the Bank of Cleavland, and the Da
at Cincinnati, will be received at (ho Land

fice at Chicago, — E, D, TAYLOR, Nee’

June 4, 1835.—6,

i Sealed Proposals
ne ILL be received by the subscriber, u
Hi y tho 10th day of June next, at 12 0’e!
od! yf. for tho. delivery of FRESH BEEF to
2! troops of tho U. 8. at Fort Dearborn, for
‘<* year, beginning the Ist day of July, 1835.
tn The panne of twa. yesponnible surotios wi
” ined Lo accom cac .
he  Sane Peed TT. JAMISON,
Lt and Ae

ne Fort Dearbarn, ;
of! May 22, 1835. ¢ kw.

ng) nn ee

be Notice,
me EALED Proposals will be received by
89) SS) subscriber, until the firet day of July n
ra"  at 12 o'clock M. for the delivery of Jire hun
ot8  cords of merchantablo Wood, to the troop
ut the U.S. at Eort Dearborn, on or before the
hie day of November, 1835. ‘Tho won to te
he  ded by the contractor at such place near 
he  iyearborn as will be designated. by the Ac
“ ‘Asat. Quartermaster, and must consist of
Mi  following kinds and no other. to wit: white!
1! hickory, white ash anv maplo; cach cord t
Hie  8 feet long, 4 feet high and 4 foct wide, mea
Lhe  ing from aif the alope of each end of the »
Ty  ‘Tha names of two seopansibis sureties wi
"? required to accompany eac +
eir  "4 sere L. T. JAMISON,
dade Lt. and A. A, Q'm
M8) Fort Dearborn, May 22, 1835.—7.
the . N- B. Seperate bids will also bo roceives
the delivery 07 twenty tons of beat prairio 
to be cut in Jaly or before the 10th of ay
next; each ten to contain by actual weight :
sia,  Pounds. % LT

OTICH,—Tho pr
5 are hereby not
the commanding officer at 
Dearborn, at C! HEAR Tis
isan to callin, and receipt for a
ms ab preg tta and Asoutramentti(? the hi
itizona ol che country.
[illegible]
ments in theit possession, by purchase a ol
lize  wise, will do well to bring or send Gadey in
nto  obtain the necessary recelpts, with as lit
. jay as possible, a8 8 contrary coures may
[illegible]
tion, and the penalty o! s. GREEN,

: Alajor 5th Infantry, Com'd. Po
iy,  May 23, 1835——Hw—G
For Rent,

ng Lores; ane on South-water st
ah bier bos on Lake atrent; also one 

eu,  fortablo Dwelling. Enquire of easy
Chleaga, May 2%, 18%. 30-8

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 5 ---
[illegible]
am 2 Of administration upon the estate of Hii
tom Laird, deceased, late of Lasalle county, I)
All persone having claims against: said ental
are requested to present them
Probate, Property authenticated, at the term 
sald court, to be holden at Ottawa, op the fourt
Monday in July noxt, at which time and plac
I shall attend to make a scttlement of said ce
tate: and all those indebted to said estate a
Fequeated to make immediate payment.
PHILINDA LAIRD, Administratriz.
Ottawa, Wl. May 22, 1835,—4w-5.
On Consigninent,
BBLS. of old Ohio MWhiskey;. fir
: rate article,
SOLE LEATHER;
Mona, womens and childrons,Bouts § Shae
JONES, KING & Co.
May 2.

' Fer Sale,” °
A HOUSE plensantly. situate ¢
A Randolph-street,nqarly opp
site the public square. Enquire
this offier.

Pocket Book Found.
POCKET BOOK’ is loft at this office whi
4X. was found by an Indian in Chicago durir
the payment last tall, containing some mone
which the owner, (F. Caldwell it is suppose
can have by paying a remaneration to the Inc
an, and for publishing this notice, by applyit
at this office. May 19, 1835.—5

For Sate,

FARM containing about 1!

acres, situate on theriver D

Plains, 12 miles went of Chicag

‘The farm is beautifully situate wi

the tollowing improvements, wi

comfortable Log House and Bar

40 acres under fence, 20 ploughed, a young mi
sery of 2 acres, consisting of apple, cherry, pet

-jand quince. Apply to
J. BATES, jr. Aue'r.
May 20, 1835.5
The subscriber is preparcd to dispose of a’
+] property, by AUCTION, or on commsssion, th
may be offered, at the old stand.
J. BATES, jr. Aue'r.

FROM GALENA TO CHICAGO

Four Horse Post Coashes, via. Dixon, (D

on's Ferry,) twice a weex, will leave C

jena, every Sunday and Wodnesday, at: o'elc

M1 P. M., and leave Chicago, every Satarday a
DY Tucaday for Galena, :

Wanted Immediately, 

FRST rato BAKER; one who is well ;

quainted with the business, will rece
good wages and constant employment, Enqu
at this office. May 2, 18. O1e

 Chicago & St, Joseph Pack

HWE new Schooner LLEWE

LYN, Cruanx Master,»

ply for freight and passengers, d

ing navigation, between the moi

of St. Josnplrand Chicago. For freight or p

 sage apply to David Carver or Wim. Sibi

in Chicago, Calvin Britain, St. Joseph, or to.
 captain on beard,

May 25, 1835.61,

Twig This.
LL persons having unactiled accounts w
me, that was made before this spring, 1
 pay up by the Ist of June, or they will be
without further notice—jair warning.
J. 1. MULFORD
May 26, 1835.

Hardware, Stoves, &c.
rpe undersigned have formed a connect
in the morchantile buainess, under the 6

of Jones, King & co. They are receiving
Brig Illinois, 2 large and general assortment

Hard Ware,

Cutilery, Nails, Irony, Steel, &e.
A large and complete assortment of
e STOVES,
of! and Stave Furniture, Iron Wars and Saw 3
*  Geering, which thoy offer at wioLesaLe or
o  Tai. WILLIAM JONES
BYRAM KING,
H. B. CLARKE.

May 26, 1835.

RUSSELL E. HEACOCK,
Counsellor and Attorney at Law,
Chicago, Ulinais.
ULL attend to all business confided to
ok eare, in hia profession... Bo will alac
he  the business for all. who may: employ him,
N28! Jand conveyancing, being a Justice of the pt
business may be done ay reasonabe, and u
be conveniently. He will also open and heey
the samo place, a Land Agency Office, tor
purchase of land, the payment of taxes, Kc,
all who may give bim business in that line; 
ing been a resident at Chicago for the Inst ¢
years, and being acquainted with almost
section of land for the first 30 miles of the
nois canal line, and for the distance of m
he miles around Chicago, he thinks himself
ualified to give information on that subject,
db the business for non-residents, aa any o
of  in the state, :
Letters addressed to the subscriber, post p
will be attended to. .
ffice in the 2d story, opposite the Excha
'g:  Coffe House, corner of Lake and Franklin
He Chicago, May 23, 1835.61,
tk,  aoe
he Dry Groceries,
ar LARGE lot is now offered for sale,
May 26. JONES, KING ec

For Bent,
CONVENIENT Store House, on Wa

treet. Enquire of
Le ee eee DAVID CARVE!

til

for! May 27, 1835.
xt Valuable Farms for Sak
i)

NUMBER of valuable improved Far
tet situate along the a oe Lorre
Hi i n canal, some of the cation
ic ent Cac, VAN HORS
Hickory Creek, May 18, 1835,-—40f.

is,. Ne B.—C. C. ¥. HD will bo in Chicago f
pi-  the 29th until after the Jand sale,

ing J. CURTISS,

re- Altoruey and Counsellor nt Law, a
ere SOLICITOR IN CHANCERY,
nd cuigaoo, ILLIS01.

de. FFICE in South Water-street, first.
ub O wost of Messrs. Joxys, Kina & Co,

‘ ataire.) Muy 18, 18365

GEO. W. FORSYTH,

Aitorney at Law,
ESPECTFULLY. offers his proftisi
services to the inbabitanta of Lasalle

‘Ageotion Statigg

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 23, COLUMN 6 ---
HE for sale, on liberal
terma, a numbor of lots, eligibly situated

he School Section, on tho river, and in tho

Joriginal town. EK. HUBBARD, ©
) hie go, May 19, 1835.—54 :

EDWARD W. CASEV,
NEY & COUNSELLOR: AT LA Ww,

ihoining that of the Clerk of the
Court. ps)

HE subscriber, who kept the Greenville
Springs at Harrodsbutgh, Ky., in 124,
aud Inte the Washington Hall, in
Hillaborough, IL, and Jaat the Man-
sion House in Springfteld, HL, has

Wreere removed back to his old stand in
Milleborough, where he hax opened a

Mouse of Entertainment
for traveliers and othera who may favor him
with a call. His house is convenient and com-
fortablo; his table will’ bo furnished with the
best the country affords; his bar will be suppli-
ed with the choicest liquora, and his stable. will
be well supplied with forage, Travellers may
reat aaaured What no exertions shall be winting
on his part to render them comfortable. Thank:
ful for past favors, he hopes to share a continu.
ance cf public patronage,

N. B. His name aver the door will be his ai
for Fv present, H.C. BENNETT.

xe
IMPORT. AND SELL
China, Glass, Earthern Ware and
iy Looking Glasses, -
T the lowest New-York prices, (adding on-
ly the lowen? rate of carriage, ) -
Al the sign of the Large Citcher,
No. 112, Jarvenson Avesce, Detrorr.

The above firm being a branch of an exten
sive house at Buffalo, N. ¥. (well known thro’
the western country,) under the firus of Gard-
ner & Patterson, are determined to sell every
article in their line, as tiie and on’ as aceommo-
dating terms aa any house in the United States.
The aubscribors, from their acquaintance with
the various Potteries in England, have been a.
~  blo (by personal attention) to make‘such selec-
tions as will warrant them in asserting that their
ware, in” point of quality and clegance, ia not
inferior to any imported,
Patterson, Gardner § Mather.

Looking Glasses,

P., G. & M. have connected with their estab-
lishment an extensive Looking Glass: Fectory,
which enables thom to deli that article lower
than the same article can be bought in New-
York city. Tho subscribers will keep constant-
ly on hand a Acary xtock of Curva, Grass, Bare
Taras Wane, and Loontsa Grasses, and on the
 opening of navigation, will be receiving, direct
from Liverpool, heavy quantities of ware, of the
latest style and patterns, which merchants, on
their way to New-York, and others, are invited
to call and examine-—at No, 112, Sign of the
Large Pitcher, Detroit.

Swi Patt » Gardner & Mather.

CROMELIEN, ITHERS & CO,
Foreign Wine and. Liquor Establishment,
No. 983 Pearl-Street, New-York,

ILL open-a Branch of their Louse in this
city, at 127. Main Strect, (near the Man-
sion House,) on the 25th inst., for the perma-
nient business of supplying this place and the
whole Western Country with superior and gen-
uine :
Wines and. Liquors.
They aro desirous to have the publick acquaio-
ted, that front their long experience inthe busi-
neas, and of their many We tera Customers
who have been supplied for the past 2 years, ax
well aa from the continued patronage Urey re-
ceive, they muet give entire satisfaction,” and
feel confident that in opening a branch here, as
> they have, will much facilitate Merchants tu the
despatch of their Orders, which otherwise would
hav. to be sent to Now-York. [o doin
hove, and by appealing to the publick
assured that Ue will nivet tho vi
All Orders and Letters, rost-eas, .will
taally attended to, directed to this place or
fork,
‘April 16th, 15:
Sten Engine
HE subscriber offers for sale a Stam Ea-
gine of wuflicient power (o run three pur
of mill’ stones, two of which may be 4 fret be-
weas, and one of a pinaller wiza,
This Engine waa built under the inspection of
the owner, wito ia a practical engineer, and can
therefore warrant the same ta be of the best iron
and wiflicient power for. the above purposes. or
for a saw mill, witha lath machine and grind
siope attached toit.. The subscriber would sol!
half of the engine for cash, to one who would
establish a grist mill in the Hourishing villageof
Lakeport, in Laport county, Ja, where hois
do] now pulling up another engine for a egw mill,
orhe willsell the whole engine on tle most fa-
ce  yurable lorms, and’ rereive several paiva of good
exen, and one or. twa substantial wagons in
at part payment. The engine will arsivecnt Fort
he  Wayne on the first rise of the Bt. Mary'a river,
‘or and will be left in charge af Col, Srescarn, of
Fort Wayne, ot whom farther particulars may bo
had, or Ly addressing a line to the subscriber at
ry  Lakeport, Lapo-t co, Ja. :
li- GARRET BIAS.
By Peta
el] r

nd
Lig

id,

cney,
EW-YORK American. Daily, Tri-woekly
and Seml-weekly; American Plough Boy,
New-York Parmer, Rail-Road Jcurnal and Re-
inter of Internal baprovemonts, © Mechanive
Mavazine and Register of Inventions, Kubserip-
tions for the above publications reecived by K.
Srewagr, at Col. Hamilton's office.
—1° Chicago, Nov, 28, 1834, 52 if
FOUND,
N the woods adjoining this town, » package
of papers, consisting of bills, notes, Ac. the
property we should judge by the contents, of a
German by the nante of Bernard Joxte or Yoste,
w pediar, “ Tho owner can havo the same by ap-
plying to. this olfico and paying for this adver-
ligement.” Now. 12, 1834.0

"Goods at Wholesale.

ge
ts,

MVE subscribers are now receiving and
Y&  ufler for sale, at Wholesale and Retail,
ab extensive ssxortinent of :

Dry Goods, Groceries,”
Hardware, Crockery seo

Denlera in the interior: will. find it to. their

—  mlyautage to call before they go to St. Louis,
or the Bast, ax these goods were porchased of

Importerain, New York,: and. canbe al

at ae pees «HUBBARD & Co.

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 4 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 24
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 1 ---
A POLICE REPORT.
[We do not know’ when we have
an article better: got up (as the. manufa
ers say) in the inventive tine than the
lowing story from the Police Report De
ment of a Philadelphia paper.

A Queen Customer. —“It is

amusing,”? said Richard Mervyn, as bi
linguished the sitet to rise from the
ter at the comer ofe——pn¢——stree

“It is really strange how soon this dre:

climate of “America brings on old age

shall never servive to get home and wr

book about the place-——never. Here I

six feet two, without. my stockings, spr

ing ins ditty, republican gutter, without
ingable to held myself out of it. The

a lamp winking and blinking in. my face

if it wants to laugh, and would if ith:

mouth, and ‘a big brute of a dog just 
nosed me to see whether [ was good to

What a country! what gutters! and +

hiquor!. I only took nine swallers of w

kay, and whet with that and the prema

old age, I verily beliave J’m oasassinate

T'm a gone chicken!” .

Mr. Marvyn ow clamoured so. lov

that assistance soon come.

“Silence there! what’s the matter?”

“Matter yourself—I'm being done, or
some people say, l’m doing. The marc!
mind has. tripped, and Richard Mervy
too deep for himself. Help me out—ger
—-there. Aint Tina very pretty pick
This is what the doctors call guita sere
is’ot i?”

“When 1 was at school the boys wo
have called you a guttural.”

- *They would’nt have known much ab
Atatomer, if they did. I'ma liquid—
me drip.”

“Oh! oh! said the watch, don’t try
be funny; I know you well enough, ni
you've wiped your face, You're the ch
thet locked me up in my box ance, a
when I burst open the door, you knock
me heels over head, and legged it.”

‘aThat’s me. I did that thing. How

ou like the ups and dawns of public life?

sat variety chorming?

“If it was'nt that I’m a public functionas
and mus’nt give way to my feelicas, 
erack your cocop, and ease my mind by d
ing as.I was done by. I'll make an exar
ple of you, however. —You're my prison«
Hally cnosha to the watch’us. ‘That's
‘Dutch for heing took up.”

“Well, give us your arm. Don't 
afraid of the mud. “Gutter mud is ve
wholesome.. Look at the pigs, how fat
tmakas’em; and if you like fat pork, wl
should’nt you like what makes pork fat? §
~bo—eteady. Now [ll tell you all abs
Vother night. 1 was passing your box in
friendly, promiscous sort of a way,  thoug
you were aalesp, or had run down, anc
turned the key to wind you up. If a wat
aint wound up, it can’t either keep go
time, er éven go.”

**Well, what else??? .

“Why, then I watched the hox, and wh

you-came out, J boxed the watch. Tha

all. It prew out of my obliging disposition

“Ha! very obliging. Now it’s my tu

t wind you up, and, to do it in the sar
wy, V'll take. you before the watch make
fo be cleaned and regulated. You go
fast, but I'll pat a spoke in your wheel; he
set you by the State House, and make ye
keep food time.”

“Why, walchy,::you're a wag. Wh
don’t you say ‘that Twaaa horizontal, an
that ou lifted me ‘up like a patent level
You're awake now; but that night yo
was'at up to trap, or you would have caugh
me. I caught a weasel asleep that time—
put fresh salt ow you for once.”

9 add one more to his vagaries, Meryy
now refused to walk a ste farther; and at
ling down on a step, lowly avowed his re
solation, declasing his name was not Walker

Whether your name is Walker or not
you must go.’

“Not. without a go-cart—you can’t forc
me to go—I'm a legal tender, and yo
must take me. Hav’at I got an office, 0
at least a pablic mtuation, here on the steps
Mr. Charley Brattlestrape? If J must x
ib shall be on the Yankee principle of rota
tion; bring me a wheelbarrow. eform mi
out regularly.?”

Persoasion being useless, the. officer pro
cured assistance and a wheelbarrow, ii
ing Mervyn was placed. Away they

“So we go,” said Mervyn. Charley’
making a barrow-night of me. Gently ove:
the stones! I don’t like bumpers excep
when J get them of porter. ‘This is the
way to Wheeling—hurra! cart before the
horse!”

When arrived at the watch house, Mer-
vya insisted upon being wheeled up stairs,
and alvled the place a borrosg-nial castle,

‘I'ma modest man,” said he, “and: no
Btairer. If I can't have a ride up, I think
myeell satiled to draw back.)

0 saying, he attempted to escape, but not
being so. nimble with his feet tig with his
longue, he was soon caught and lugged back,

1 an he said, like goldemith’s works,
beautifully chased. Willing hands make
short work, and, in consequence, the unsavo-
ty punster was soon carsied up aloft, and
next morning, sober and penitent, paid his
iy. i. a his carriage bite, with a dole-

count nce. iladelphia Sportsman.

yiver was instantly manifovted,
Tose to the surface, ike
aioe by the hand Biles Were seep darting
tribe withi ake of the epot reilagl el
borming nature of the Tinie, It is calculated,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 2 ---
Caturn tue. Ispras Painten—~)
sen  DAN Reticion—Tne [xprays were J
ore  Mr..Catlyn, of whose portefeuille on I
f,l-  portraits we have frequent!y spoken, 
perceive lecturing at Mobile. We tru

 wil soon make bis way to the Northe:
ties. Indians are no” rarities but rat
re-  Nuisance to the people about there. 7
ut-  they are becoming subjects of historic
ie  terest, and therefore magnified in import
ful  If the following, related by Mr. Catly

we find it-in the Mobile Commercial
ea  ter, bea true narrative, it is peels a
tatraordinary and. unexpected confirm
ylz  of the truths of the bible. The ark
yg  therefore have landed on Chimborazo o
e%  Allegunies,’ and the Indian. tribes that
ng  populated this country, must have been an
 the descendants of Abraham.
sw  The origin of the religious ceremor
the Mandans is both novel and interes!
vat  It is probable that no white man was pre
is-  at Chis celebration before Mr. C. and
re  Zentlemag who accompanied him; and 
tradition, connected with it, of a stray
coming to them from ihe west, who had 
ed himself froma great flood, and had fo
fand on the mountain in his canoe, has
bably been first made known to the w
man at that visit. The season of these
remonies is the budding of the willow,
js the reason assigned is, that the bird 
back with a sprig of willow. On be
2  questioned what bird, thew reply. was,
y, mourning dove. The whole tradition u

which these ceremonies are founded, 
jd  matter of speculation for the curious. ‘TI

its means the origin of these wild peo
it  May, perhaps, be traced."—N. V. Star

ost

Bs
of

[From the Green Mountain Democrat.
0) Ay Honest Coxression.—The V
*  mont Courier, a leading Whig paper publi
Pied at Woodstock, holds forth the follow
language. :

“The Windsor Statesman calls us
avowed friend of monarchical governme
° Mt is not very questionable with us, but x
"some of the most liberal and enlighte:

men in the country, whether a limited m
archy, such as could be digested and eat
lished under the light and intelligence of
Presant aye, would not secure to the 
" fire community life, liberty, and the purs
of happiness in a greater degree than
 Government as is now existing and oper:

ing in this country.

Are the Democratic farmers of Wind:
County prepared to adopt such an execral
sentiment? Will they give their aid in a1
,  Verting the republic to arect a monarchy 
t  Bested and established by modern Whig lig

and intelligence? We do not doubt that t
Courier fairly represents the views and fe
1  ‘ge of the leading men of his party, 
,  thank God, the Yeomanry of Vermont »
#amp them with reprobation.

j

f

THE WHIGS.
ht The Whigs lives in every state, 
3  Wishes to live only in a free state I
claima no right in himself but what he
Dy willing to give bis neigkbor.—He is 1
listed in sects by sounds, nor kept in them
» preiudices; his ‘mind is not contracted 
 systems, nor sacred bigots; it is open to G
 and nature; he is not attached to persons 
‘ factions, but to things, to justice, to libert
to virtne and to his country. He adher
to men who adhere to these ; and adheres
them no longer than they adhere to those..
With like contempt of promises and menace
unawed dy power he ig attached to these.-
Not lurking like a drone to reap what othe:
sow, he cherefully acts his part in society
he does what he can; he endeavors, ‘with
his sphere, to promote the general welfari
Nu matter what you call him, what his nami
his profession, or the title of his religion-
This isa WHIG.”

Such is the charseter drawn by Bessa
sux Frawsiiy of the Whigs—but how ur
like the tory federalists—the monopolist
the panic ord distress makere—the “ lui
king drones” who wish to reap where othe
sow”—the * aay, pestilence and famir
men—who in mockery of whig principle:
have recently assumed the name of whig.-
Fanny Kemble truly said that the principle
of the Boston whigs, were the game as th
English tories : ind yet the above from Di
Franklin is quoted by. the federalists to prov
that a black, blue of speckled tory is a whit
whig.

eee

Public Speaking.—‘'] never,” says Po;
“could pei gage And] dont belicy,
if it was a set thing I] could give an accoup
of any story to twelve friends together
though I could tell it to any three of then
wilh great pleasure. When  appeared foi
the Bishop of Rochester on his trial, thougt
I bad but ten Words to say, that on a plait
paint, (how that Bishop spent his time wher

wae with him at Bromley,) I made tw:
or three blunders jn it, notwithstanding the
first row of lords, which was all I could see,
were mostly of my acquaintance.

Mecuanicn.—If there js any  situati
truly enviable, it is that. of an Todusttipe
mechanick, who, by his own Gnaided exer.
tions has established reapectable place in so-
iets who, commencing in poverty, by his

and petseverance, overcomes every ob-
stecle, vanquishes eyery prejudice, and builds
up for himself a reputstion ‘whose value is
enhanced to others, And let it be remem-
bered that this situation is a‘ ‘nable by all

who have health and ic:
i lg tl poate ate know edge

he ndustry and yir
umbition are seldom exerted in Vain. per

The Democrats of the Granite Sta
Me 2 te per
eelly comprehend the relative condition od

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 3 ---
Kreriso Suese.—l Sowed thre
els of oats to cure before they are quit
for my ‘sheep; this I-have= found to:

cheapest and. best method to ot
of the many ways that Ihave ae :
sheep will eat it all clean, : ps an is
will get grain enough, (anid ths t Og
believe it far beter ihe re ay
them in good condition. 1 never fin:
‘ taarneret sheep that was kept in a
Two good sheaves per day, will "
sheep through the winter; mone ene
jost sieaves, and some but une, Head i het
tion  get to the ground; I have tri st
ust  know. Now say five months, :
the  300 sheaves, that would maketwe ve
nce  els to the hundred; would be thirty-six
yg jels oats, and the straw. Ifany of
correspondents can do better, and wit
expense I should be glad to krow it. —
ng. nessce Farmer.

io Mansvuracturss or New Yorx.-

jr [learn from William’s Annual Register
id the yearly amount of the Fallewing pri
‘ wwfactures in this state 15 almos Ww
vd een millions of dollars. OF this prodi
» sum, $2,500,000. are the products of
lens; $3,520,250, of cottons; $41,000
ie of jron and manulactures; $700,001
Nd paper; $3,458,650, of leather; $3,500,
my fof hats; $3,000,000, of shoes, dedu
iid leather; $2,000,000, of window glaw;
ne  523,531, of domestic articles made ia
a.
” ae assessed valuations of real and
” sonal estate, in the state, is, of real, $4
e,  011,629; of personal, $109,660,506; t
" $559,672,135,
= in the state, is $21,288,312.
The amount of tolls received on the
eral canals in. the state, amounted, in 1
r= !to $1,223,802; in 1832, to $1,229,58;
n>  1833, to $1,463,715; in 1834, to $1,3
iz

RY & DOLE,
t- Storage, Porwarding and Comminsi
fh MERCHANTS,
d CA GO-ELLEN OL
bn bag bh for the Merchants Line,
-  REFERENCES—
8. ca Anaustaosa, No.9, Conties Ship, N.)
 Roserr Huwren, Esq. Albany,
° Banxgn & Hoxt, Buffalo.
Ouyen Newueeny, Detroit.
€) Cacvia Burra, Mouth St. Joseph.
-) Janne B. Campus, Ouaiea, 

Also, Wholesnic and Retail Dealers

r ry Goods Groceries an
e __ PROVISIONS,

: HUBBARD & Co.

( WER CRLATNS

 CHICAGO—ILLINOIS. 
It Guapos 8, Hupparn,
Hasar G. Hopparn.

Fire Insurance.
4 ue subscribers having been appow
Agents for the Howard Fire Insurn
»  Company of the city of New-York, for. (
g  C8g0 and tho vicinity, will inaure property
t  Saint loss by Fire, on reasonable terms,
7 ly 1.

uly E. K. HUBBARD
«Town Maps,

j A pad received and for salo, Lithogray
Maps of the Town of Chicago, includ
the School Section, “*Kinzie's Addition,” V
»  ban-sia, de. handsomely executed,
; KINZIE & FORSYTH
, Jane 18, 1834.
. They can also be found at the office of
"Chicago Democrat.”
ee in good barrels, now unloading fr
the Schooner, Mariah Antonette, and A
lants. Forsaleby HUBBARD & Co
July 2, 1834.

serene gene ncn enn
Wy dt
® VILLAGE DOT,
AT AUCTION,
IN DAY'S ADDITION TO OTTAWA
HE subscriber having obtained uitle by p
emption to an 80 aro lot adjoining tho
riginal plot of the town of Ottawa, atate of I
nois, has proceeded to lay off the same into cc
Fenient lots for buildin » Ke. and will sell
Public Auction, FIFT LOTS, ‘to be select
from the difforent Blocks in the survey, ont
13th JUNE nest, in the town of Chicago, III
To those who are acquainted with the doligh
ful situation of Ottawa, it will not be nuceasa
fo speak of its superior advanta; s being at t
junction of the Fox, with the 1] inois River a)
surrounded with hydraulie power'to any ponsit
contingency. In high water it in at the head
navigation, and with an inconaiderablo oxpe
diture applied to the improvement of the river
may and will probably become the head of na
igation at any stage of waler, and the termin
tion of tha contemplated Canal, authorized
made from the said river to Chicago, TI
lands in tho immediate vicinit: of Otlawa, at
all the adjacent county are arable and suacept
ble of cultivation and are not aurpased by an
in the State for fertility,

‘bo peenery in the neighbourhood is unrivale
the health of the place equal to any other trw
in the state situated upon a stroan), and indus

‘the friends of Ottawa claim for it advantages o
that score that no othor town upon the rivs
Porscees, founded upon the facts of the enti:
absence of timbered and overflowed bottomn ¢
intervals, atid s brisk current in the streania wit
rochy and sandy bottoms, already there aro nin
buildings on that part of the Town laid off b
the subscriber and several others are in progres
of erection.
To capitalists this sale will afford & certni
RpPortunity of a good inveatment to Merchants
lcehanics and business Men, an opportunity i
bem Presented on secure or lower fade al
obAMy aver occur again, elj site
for business and residences unis s oe
inteligent, moral, active enterprising and re
portable: Ollaws Poe Isid out by Cana
lestonors in 1831, is ¢ OC to
1 Salle Count and is belinyed to he. docting

vallod ady, a
in her hydract unr molar of: Oltaws
mituation on account o navigation market
having the chain of te 4 ‘ re Cr Nee
nd surrounded ae it regio! f
i fertile and deligh and scarce : shove
N. B, The facilities ter buildii ¥ he’ ob.
ined we fe be" ob.

ained here among which we he ‘ nee
of, Stone, a fine fo; :
ied several aw Mili to Hol aa

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 4 ---
ashe; Musical Kostrnmen
ies  EW. and Extensive sesortinen'
he H A obi modern and approved music:

<p ; ments, such as Piano Fortes
pe oe epee fashion; Clarionett and

chs Violins and Violincellos: Tr
sand. Buta, Violins and Fifes, Flagilette
an,  Horna ond Houthoys, Ke.

ich willbe sold at unosual

bear The ubave articles to be found at

troit Book Store, and at Jno, B. Piquott

way.) clry Store. Detrait, Nor. 8. 1234.—-61t
re ee

ny Wincs, Cigars, &c

hey  (AHAMPAIGNE, of the Sillory Br

ee / Sherry of various brands and impor

i do Maderia do. Ons

8Y%)1  Male;ra; Sicily, Ma.; Port, “Harrie;

usn- J, : , _ x

ush- eNGARS, of the epiebral cs mano

do Clark, Havanna, snd others, fi

ie HUBBARD & 

ren! Watches and Jewelr
: J, He MULEORD,

AVING just
We “ed from” Ne’
that and Philadelphia, 5
ipal extensive assortine
uty Clo: ks, Watel
ious  Jewelry,
vol- Os

can " comprising as great
WO, aty of goods in his line, as has ever been
of Weet of Buffalo; consisting of
00. Gold and Silver Patent Lever, Lepine
, r
ip lish and common Watches; ;
PB) Alabaster and Ebony 15 day Time Pie
4° strike hiourse and half hours;
mie  Curtis’ and Dunning’s 8 day time pice
Rich diamond, pearl, cameo, and agate
cre Pins; do. de. Jet Finger Ri
Pearl, jet, cameo, filagre and vine Ear 
0-1 Gold cable and curb Ladies’ Watch Cl
tal, Cutlery aud Fency Articles, .
Mathematical Instrumenta; Pocket Pis
Roger's beat silver steel Raigors;
Powder Flasks and Shot Pouches;

PV"  "Thermometers; Measure Tapes;

31] Double and single barroled Fowling Pi
. Table and desert Knives and Forks;
9,-  Back yammon, chequer and cheas boare

and chess men; Double Mirrors ;
Soutler and Trays; pocket books and w
A great variety of dirk, pocket and pen

Spectacles.

Gold, Silver, Plated and Steel Spectac
suil any persons eyes,

Music, : ‘

A lot of good Music Boxes, of different

Harmonicas, and many other articles t

merous to mention.

Silver Ware, 5 :
A guod assortment ever pointed Pencil
Table, tea, desert, cream, mustard al

Spoons; Sugar Tongs; Buttcr Kniy:

Indian silver work manufactured on the

test notice, and as cheap as can be bou
the United States.

Batch Repairing.
J. H. M. is determined that no pains s!
spared in repairing all Watches entrusted
care, on the shortest atice and in a worl

like manner. Cash paul for old Gold and
Chicago, May, 141

NE

PETER COHEN,

Wyre bey leave to inform his old

tomers, and the public generally,

he has just received by brig Indiana, and

for sale on the most reasunable terms, a 
complete and aplensid asaortinent of

Dry Goods, Groceries,
CLOTHING,

well snited to this section of tho country,
kinks of Liquors, at wholesale and retail.
respectfully requests the people to call an
amine for themselves, at his store next do
low Messre, Newberry and Dole’s store h
on south water atreet.

Chicago, Nor. 3, 1834.49.

PHILO CARPENTER
Wholesale & Retuil Drugg

AT THE SIGH OF THE GOLDEN MORTER,
South Water Street, Chicago,

Hy: just received, and no

fors for sale, one of thi

¥ geatand best selected assortmer

ma PE Oa? aw
Sed MEDICINES,

Paints, Oils, & Dye-Stufl
over offered in the State of Ilinois, compri

every artiele usually called for at a Drag St
Also, a general and well solected axsortme
Dry Groceries, Crocker
and Glass- Ware,
t together with on assortment of Hardware,
f domers’ and Carpenters’ Tools, of tho beat w
manchip. ‘Together with a great variety of
cellanomia Artieles, comprising
300 paire coarse and fine men’s BOOT
200 do. do, do. SHOE
A solect assortment of School Books Fy
Tron and atecl; saw mill and cross cut Sa
Scythe and Snaths; Nails, hoes, shovels
Spades, sheet iron, stone and wood ware,
-  Braoms, bed cords and eorda
tall which he is prepared to ell at the loy
 cash prices.
 Froma long experience in the Drug \ine,
 subscriber can with coutidence invite. the c
of Merchants in the countr y and the orders
Physicians, ‘pledging himself that all orders «
be put up with caro and fidelity, P.C
Chicago, hime 25, 1834,

J. 8. C. HOGAN,

OF ERS at Wholesaleand Retail, at hia St

in South Water Stree
the Post Office, : fea sear, Nel

Dry Goods, Groceries,
Mardware, Crockery and Glass Ware
Altoma quantity of 8 by 10, and 7 by 9 Wind
sand Sash,
& doz, corm BASKETS;
200 sides Sole Leather ;
$0 do Upper do,;
@ doz. ane ip Skins,
Just received from the Massilo Tron W.
(Ohio,) 4 tons superior CASTINGS, comin

J

of pouaah and Sugar Kettles;
ots, with and without covers, asn'ts ai
Dish and Tea Kettles; Harrow Teeth, ,
STOVES, &c.

which he will well ag low
bought wont of New-York, 7 uae 8 can
diddy 30, 1834,

Boot & Shoe Making.
FNHE subscriber having FecenUly commenci
: e-business, next to PLC.
hen’s Store, willbe kept on hat
a good assortment of
ishing Fine Boots, water. proof, will be accon
Materiuds. and fashion

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 5 ---
of the Unit
ant offing United Staten of Ay
mu-  Ab sident ofthe Unit tates of. Ar
pele horeby declare and make known that
Bugies,  Sale willbe: held at Chicago, the «
mpets,  Land Office for the North eastern dis
Pocket linois, ‘commencing on Monday, tho
June next, for the disposal of the Pub
svithin the limits of the undermentia!
ships and fractional townships, situat
waters of the Ilinois, Fox, Lapisine,
million 1ivers, along the rout of the 
————~  thorized by tho act of congress appro
2d of March, 1&27, entitled “An act t
quantity of Land to the State of Mine
purpose of aiding in opening a Canal
she waters of the [inois river, with
Lake Michigan,’” and. excluding tho
Bene-  sections reserved to the State of Iine
provisions of said act, to wit:
ure o  North of the boxe line and East of 2
‘sale  meridian:
D. Township 31, of range 4,
———-  Township 32, of range 4, except st

tions,

3
Township 33, of range 4, except sec
5,7, 9, 13, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 9
31,33 and 25. :

Township 34, of one . #
19, 21, 23,25, 27, 29, 31, 33,

Township 39, of range 4.

That part of Township 36, lying So
old Indian boundary, of range 4.
‘Township 31, of range 5.

‘Township 32, of range 5, except se
3,57, 9, 11,13, and Id.

Township 33, of range 5, CxXcept se
3,5, 7.9, U1, 33, 15, 1, 19, 21, 93, 25
31, 33, and 33,

Township 4, of range 5, excopt sec
31, 33, and 35. : .
That part of Township %5, lying We
river, and South of the old Indian bou:
range &, :

Township 31, of range 6.
Township 32, of range 6, except se
5, and 7.
Township 33, of He 6, except se
3,5, 7,9, 1, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 2
3t, 33, and 35,
Township 34, of range 6, except sec
25, 27, 29, 31-38, and 3a,
That past of Township 35,  lying Soy
, dies  old .ndian boundary, of range 6,
Township 31, of range 7.
Township 22, of range 7,
Township 33. of range 7, except se
3,5,7,.9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 23
3k.

xeept sec
35,

Township 34, of range 7, except sec!
13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31,
That part of Township 35, of range
South of tho old Indian boundary line.
‘Townahip 31, of range &.
Townpilip 32, of range 8,
‘Township 33, of range 8, except sec
3, 5, 7,9, 11, 15, and 17.
Township 34, of range 8, oxcept sec
3,5, 7, 9, 11, 13,15, 07, 19, 21, 23, 25
31, 33, and 36,
hat part of Township 35, lying So
East o! the old Indian boundary, of ran
cept section 35,
hia . Phat part of township 36, lying So
> .  Past of the old Indian boundary, of ran
Teen Township 31, of range 9.
96 , That part of Townslip 22, lying Nor
Indian boundary and West of Kankake
~~"  of range 9,
Township 33, of range 9, except sec
3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 15, and 17,
Township 34, of range 9. except sec
3,5, 7.9, M1, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
31, $8, 35,
Township 35, of range 9, except sec
3,5, 7,9. 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
31,33, and 35,
That part of Township 36, lying Sout
old Indian boundary line, ot range. 9,
sections 25, and 35. >
‘That past of Township 37, lying Sout
He  old Indian boundary fine, of range 9,
That part of Townships 32, and 33
be:  North and Weat of the Indian boundary
range 10,
Township 34, of range 10, except svct
5,7, 9, 17, 19, and 3h.
Township 35, of range 10, except eet
3, 5,7, 9 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, % 3, 2,
31, 33, 1) and 35,
Township 36, of range
5, 7,9, 1, 43, 1S, Ie,
31, 38, and 35,
Township 37, of range 10, except sect
OF THI, 13, 15, 81, 23, 25, 27, 2931, 33, and
lar- the fractional parts of sections 9, 17, and
wot jeg esath of the old Indian boundary lin
hat part of fractional townsaip 38,
South of the old Indian boundary line, of

10, except sect:
19, 21, 24, 25, 

That part of Townships 33 and 3,
porthweat of the Indinn boundary line, o

Township 35, of range 11, except secti
7,.17, and 19,

Township 36, of range 11, execpt seeti
3,5,7,9, 10, 17, 19, 21, 29, and 3+,

Township 37, of range 11, bxeept secti
3,5,-7, 9, 11,13, 15, 1 19, 21, 23, 25, ¥
31, 33, and 35,

That part of township 38, lying South
old Indian boundary line, of range HL,
sections 13, 2%, 25/97, 20, 21, 83, and 335

‘That part of township 39, 1 ying South 
old Indian boundary line, of range LI.

Township a6, of mage 12,

Township 37, of range 12, except sectic
3, 6, 7,9, 12,13, 15, 17, 10, 21, 29, 97, 9

Township 38, of rango 12, except reelio
3,5,7,9, 1, M3, 15,17, 19, 21, 23, 2, 2
evi bert ef Tonal 30, lying South
hat part of Township 30, lying South 
of  old Indian boundary ling, of angele, exce
tione 25, 97, 3, and 35,
That part of Township 40, lying South.
old Indian boundary line. of range 12,
That. part. of townships 35 and 36,
Barthes of the Indian boundary line, of

Township 37, of range 13, except sectior
and 7.

13, excopt section
: 19, 21, 23, 25, 27,
3h, 33, and

Townships 90, of range 13, except sectio
[illegible]
and 35,

That part of Township 36, lying North
of the Indian boundary line, of range 14.
hat part of township 37, lying Northwe
the Indian boundary line, of range 14, ex
Poon ean and 23, . 4
; Fractional ‘Townshi range 14, except
lions 3, 5,7, 9,11, I? and oe
Fractional eae 89, range 14, oxeept.
; andi 7,9, 15,17, 19, 21, 27,29, 31,
, Fractional Township 40, d4 it.
tious 19, 21, 20, 31, amd 39. eh eh
That ‘part of fractional Township 4), of ra
M4, ying Sout and Fest of the old Indian be
ine. :
Fractional Townships 37 and 38 of ran
he lands reserved by law for the o
poesia oF for other purposes will be exclu
1 The sale vo be :
on lunges ¢ kept open for two wes L
Given under my hand, at the City of Ws
ington, the twolith day: of Febuary, Ar
“Domial, one thousand eight hundred

Township 38, of ran
3,5, 7,9, 14, 13,15, 5,

thirty-five,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 24, COLUMN 6 ---
[uncertain: Outer-edge curvature and small advertising type leave unresolved characters in this column.]
Seer

NOTICE TO ¢

REEMpriog om
Persons claiming Woe LION
rea, do [RY of the afore te abt of LatMag

the same to : 1 RA reese
a Public Ame (0 the natisfy Peeraineg
t of the  Receiver, prior to thee OF the Ran OF
ie of He] GREIAL Lasn Ory eee 

th day of  —_ Feb, 12, eg, E
¢ Lands
id town,  SPOOL, Shor

1 on the Sta
ind Ver- AS opened i Tay Lor,
anal au. Ht Leath, Stor e Mens Bagg Sho
don the Hew rods north of Misco oettbon
9 North of Messe Near tt ate
yrant a to ‘I Aas
1» for the  Dee Where may be fe t vas)
connect as good stock, as ean be foun) qe
those of  West,” whieh he
alternate  tail, at the lowest nei jeiale
500 pairs men's Coarse Bourg.
ae 300 do. do. fine do!
principal  300 do, du, coarse SHops.
260 do. do. tine ge
" 500 do, Ladies Gaiter p.tt
ns 1. F Sater, Propet
tions 1, et feats ‘Boots; tally
ons 18 we G0. dow calf do,
97, 20/ 500 do, do. prinotta, kid and ‘
; 200 de, children's Kirots and Sho S
ons 17, it do, infant's Rooteos,
Sole and Upper Lexthe true
sale cheap tor anh ote baie
WoT. will manutiety
the shortest notice, all hinds of tr
ions 1, Shoes, which he will Warrant of the ty
leather and workmans)

th ofthe

iy

ions 1) Chicago, July 8, 1834,
Oods
ons 29, HE subscriber tins just me
 York, tho following Among other gy

Lof Fox !in his line, which he otter

f
ery, of jand Retail, very row, “TOF eae at Mh

Sipetins Hack, bhic
: cloths: Dbl. mitted cassimere aed eat
ions 3, Marino cloths, and citcassinns
: ; L sicalities and colors; '
ions 1, Light and dark Ginghams and Hitaeg:
27, 20, Col'd Flouncesand seen and black wee
Gauze, Garniture, and gro dy nap Tibbs
Preaele Muslin; sik and tabby velver:
bed and $4 Damask» cottan & linen Ds
hofthe! Brown Welland: rok
Gents, and Ladies’ Gloves and Hos)
Woden and Canton Fiannels, rie
: 1 Bosdy- made CLOTHING;
ions I, Bleached and brown shirtings and Shes:
29,and  Wadding and Batting; pee
_ Window Paper and Bordering;
ons 13, ) A bales cotton Yarn; 26 Oat, pain f
8, and [and other DRY GOODS, both Senet

, lying qhavoware.
TONSISTING IN PARY OF
Bench, moulding & sash Plants asd Ploeg
Socket, lirmers, murtice sand toners chine!
Kneband stock Lacks; Bras eck cane
Cupboard Turns and Door Rapes:
ions. 1, Curtain Pins 5 Brass and glans Kula,
27,29,  Table, pocket, huteber and she fire:
Norfolk Lated Butts and Sereng;
th and) Italian Violin Strings:
eG, ox- ALN me >
Nails, Swedes Iron, nail rads, ere andy
th and  Scythes, Pitchforks, ‘Tin Ware, Bret,
2 8, Ia Rope, old and young hyson Tens, ows,
and lump Sugars, molasses, colke, e#
h ofthe  white and brown bar soap, indigo, pater
river,  coinmon candles, raisina, Crockery and 6

oreo and browy B

ons 23,

Ware, &e. JOHN WRIGH
rita tat has a Ree
ons 1, M’CORMICK & MOON,

iT, 2, Manufacturers and Wholesale Draka

one HATS,

7, 20, No. 109 Jefferson Avenue, Detrcit:
PYRE subscribers keep constantly Sr wi
of the extensive assortinent of HATS, ¥
except “they ean with confidence eee
and which will be disposed of
ot the :

Cash or approvod paper, on wt
Ps sonable terme as can be purdin
lying any regular House in the City of New-Tet
Merchants of Chicago and vicinity, apd cts
are respectfully invited to eall andeximiss
Stock, when they viait Detroit, and are ua
their orders will be gratetally reece 1
sain promptly executed,
a

‘ QOELETARY BAN
ne 2,  kept on hand or made to onder, whidvlie
r, 29,  comparigon in quality of material, se!

finish, Ke. with any manufactured i tae
ns 1,  of New-York.
Fur and Cloth CAPS, constantly cee
Y, ly- AV CORMICK & 300)
Detroit, March V5, 1334. at.
lying  ne
ange Carriage & Sleigh Makin
HE subscriters respectfally infra ie
lying izens of Chicago and ita visily,
range  they have erected a large and competi
ding, fora shop, on Kandolph street 3
as_D,  prepared to execute all orders un the ian
and Sleigh making business, on the 0
ns 1, onal lepine. rtee soit
FP REPAIRING done on short Oe
is I, BRIGGS & HUMPHRES
20.) August 13, ISR

ns 3

st tat Lyi ene =
ite Ge SIPIRENG
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR A
the And Soliciter in Chancery.
FFICE first door north from the Trem

’ Honge, on dearhorn-street,
s1,]  [uncertain: Chicago dateline, Dec. 3; year illegible.]
and

ey re q vo 7

Ie published every Wednesday, in i et

Chicago, Cook co. Hi, on South at
over Mezers Joues & King Hardware

TERMS, ve

The Chicago Democrat is printed oo
size jinperial sheet, and atfire y :

Town, subscribers who have their payer
nge  livered by the carrier $4.

a Mail wabenribers, and those

5,  papers at the affine, $2 50. a
"1 Pitty conte in addicion will  DW ANC!

casos where payment is aot wade ANTS

Papers wil iim in any instance) pene:
places where we have no author it 4
feed the subscription is accompanied 9?

‘ ' senberr ¢
Moy reon procuring Fix ue eat
ext  over, and forwarding the money, wh
ed ton seventh copy grate. inex or ond

Apvaxrisenents. For 17 3) 2
pt  RL for the fiat, and 2h cents ee nie
. quent ingertion. A Libera: disco
poe  to thowe wie advertise by she J ;

BOD WUNTUTTD

Altached to tis often ae oy thi
JOB TYPE, which are it ni
State. Books, Pamphieta, Blanks, “i devpule

who receive

‘ie

i,

er! Cards, Kc, executed with nigatuens
pe
he Jeneph Cloud esq. Ouamae
6 Charles Dano, I. M- Galen
Jobn Colman, P, Ml. Waters
af OM Mobley, Esa. Sper ‘5
sf Col, Jaen W. Crain, FER
A. Fank, Bloomington, ig
8] Phamas Hartsell 64: Hon ni :
Gilos C: Dana. pe POH cack eo:
a ed Pe Ameld, p. ee aie
dos. Naper,
i Dae ‘A. W. Bowen, p>?
dj 2 Fy a

Pe ee a ae rena Met SANS
