CHICAGO DEMOCRAT — CLEANED TRANSCRIPTION
Issue date: May 27, 1835
Weekday: Wednesday
Volume: II
Number: 6
Publisher/editor: J. Calhoun
Source PDF pages: 13-16
Printed pages represented: 4
Printed columns per page: 6
Motto: “Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.

TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
Historical spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are retained where legible. OCR readings were independently compared using Apple Vision and Tesseract. [uncertain: ...] indicates a plausible but unresolved reading; [illegible] indicates no supported reading. Source order is page by page, then column 1 through column 6 from left to right.

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 1 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 13
==============================================================================
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.”—Franklin.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 6.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 1 ---
Miscellany.
(From the Emporium and True American.)
THE VILLAGE GIRL.
[uncertain: The curved outer column defeated reliable automatic line segmentation. The reading below is reconciled from an enlarged scan and three OCR passes, but unresolved words remain.]
I sat, lost in thought, on the bank of a little rivulet that came murmuring down the hill side, and flowed away to the broad river that spread its blue surface beyond the plain toward the setting sun. A deep drop, scarcely perceptible to the naked eye, faintly sparkled on the leaf that bent from an overhanging bough. And in my half waking, half dreaming reverie, I thought I saw myriads of these little drops collecting and descending on the hills and in the vallies, forming the bubbling rivulets that flowed, one after another, until their united streams swelled into mighty rivers, and the rivers, sweeping on through the deep vallies of the lands, hundreds of miles, and terminating in fathomless oceans that rolled their resistless currents round the world.

From amid the mist that rose above the surging of the waters, there came to my side a venerable man wrapped in a seer's garment, and while with one hand he pressed the water from his flowing hair, with the other he held to my eye a curiously wrought tube of glassy transparency, and bid me mark the lesson it would unfold.

I looked, and beheld before me a pleasant village in the midst of a rich and teeming landscape, in the sweet and mellow season of [uncertain: June]. The bells are ringing, and groups of children are gathering to the school house—it is the Sabbath—and that the Sabbath School teacher, at the end of the lane, is a village girl; she stops to look a moment at some boys at play; she approaches, hesitates, turns away, and then again approaches. Now she speaks to a little ragged, noisy boy, that has quarrelled with his playmates, and picked up a stone to throw; they are going to fight, and he swears horrid oaths. She takes him by the hand—see how earnestly she talks to him—she points towards the beautiful blue summer sky, and a tear glistens on her sweet cheek.

Now she has said something which has made an impression on that rude and ruined boy—and he has turned and walked away with her. They go towards the school—he stops a moment at the door, but she has persuaded him.

Just then the old man touched a hidden key, and the scene changed. Another slowly followed.

Then at the foot of a ragged and barren mountain is an old and miserable log dwelling—the windows are broken—the chimney has partly fallen down—the wretchedness of hopeless poverty is in every feature of the scene—a lean, half famished dog sits by the door and gives faint and melancholy recognition to his master who comes staggering up the glen, intoxicated and in rags.

Far yonder, through the evening vista in the distance, is seen the outline of the same village we have left—and there, coming slowly up the path I see the very boy who was led to the Sabbath School in the morning by the village girl. He has a book in his hand. He is reading as he walks. It is a Bible—a present from his young friend, the teacher.

The scene shifts like a moving panorama. The beams of light fall upon the scene—and now the bright morning breaks over the mountain, and the birds sing in the trees. The family are gathered in a group in the cottage, and the little boy is reading from his book.—Years roll on. But still the scene is shifting and shifting. Days, and weeks, and months seem to be passing. I see the little boy takes his brothers and sisters to the village school. The whole family goes to the church on Sunday. A great reform has been effected, and every scene seems to wear a cheerful and happy face. Now, if I have counted the changes right, it is three summers since we first saw the family—they have removed to a comfortable house in the borders of the village—it is a neat house, and is surrounded by pleasant plants. What a wonderful change. But it is past—and here is another scene.

The boy has grown to manhood—and mingles with the crowds of men in a great city; by his example, his activity, and his eloquence, he is giving tone, and shape, and direction to the current of many thoughts. An energy and power, untiring and resistless, [uncertain: united with] benevolence expansive [uncertain: in its aim], characterizes all his efforts. New fields of active enterprise are presented—new objects of effort are opened—and the tides of his influence are going forth before the [uncertain: millions] of a new continent.

Another scene. That untiring man is seated. He sits in a green verandah beneath the shade of a palm tree—a strange land and a strange sky are above him. He is translating into a foreign tongue the sublime morals of Jesus—opening to millions in all futurity new views of life, of obligation, of duty. He has left his house forever, armed with the glorious panoply of truth, to war with the errors of superstition, and idolatry, and cruelty—to scatter light in darkness, and to reclaim a degraded race.

Twenty years are passing. The change has been visible and marked in the alternate [uncertain: scenes]; a new era has dawned. And as the [uncertain: missionary goes] in grey old age to his grave, the influence of his existence has been felt to the remotest shores of time. Good men bless his memory, and millions rejoice that he has lived.

“And where,” I asked, “is the village girl?”

“You shall see,” answered my mysterious guide. And touching another key, I looked again before me—the retired village scene, and after half a century, lying in its quiet and rural beauty, an old hooded woman [uncertain: moved] in decrepit age, upon a staff, dressed in the garb of rustic simplicity. I knew the face again. The peace the world could not give, and cannot take away, was there—[uncertain: in] her looks and her demeanour; she was about closing a long and unassuming [uncertain: life], with scarcely a [uncertain: thought] that she had been useful in the world.

The old man pointed to the dew drop—the rivulet—the distant river—and away to the swelling sea. “Thus,” said he, “the dew drops that feed the tides that roll round the world are emblems of that moral influence, which, though humble and silent, glows on increasing forever, only to develope the unmeasurable [uncertain: glories] in eternity.”

D.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 2 ---
FEMALE INFLUENCE.
The influence which is peculiar to married ladies, results from their connexion and intercourse with their husbands and children. It is in vain for a man to say, “my wife shall not rule me.” Now and then, perhaps, when their wills come in direct contact, he may keep possession of the field, and flatter himself that he has won the victory.—But even then, his generosity, if he have any, will induce him to waive any advantage he might have derived from it. And nineteen times in twenty, while he thinks he is pursuing an independent course, and assumes all the credit of his success, the suggestions or persuasions of his companion are influencing his opinions and controling his conduct. If in addition to the usual charms of her sex, she possesses gentleness of manners, sweetness of disposition, and a well cultivated mind, it must require a singular share of obstinacy to withstand her influence in a single instance.

As it regards the rising generation, the case is still more plain. Children, in the early period of life, are almost wholly under the care and direction of the mother. Their minds are developed under her tender and constant cultivation. Their characters are usually formed at an early period, when, their ideas being few, impressions are easily made, and when they naturally apply to their mother for advice and instruction. Besides the greater freedom which is observable in their intercourse with her than with their father, and the fact that they are almost continually in her society, it constitutes a great part of her occupation to unfold their tender powers, and impart to them the rudiments of their education.

A pious, intelligent, and faithful mother, is the greatest earthly blessing that a merciful Providence can bestow on a child. If she performs her duty, her offspring will rise up and call her blessed. It is evident from the biographies of Washington and Dwight, that their intellectual and moral greatness was derived from the blessing of Heaven on the instructions and advice of their mothers. The same is no doubt true of many, if not all the worthies of our land, and the benefactors of our race.

TEMPERANCE IN FOOD.—The position that temperance in food promotes clearness and vigor of intellect, requires only an appeal to the laws of physiology and the experience of mankind to demonstrate it. If the functions of the brain be not in a healthy and vigorous state, equally unhealthy and inefficient must be those of the mind. Now there is no organ of the body so easily affected by irregularity and difficulty of digestion as the brain. Excess in food, therefore, operates directly to cloud and impede the movements of the intellect. This is so well understood by literary men generally, that they never attempt any difficult investigations, nor powerful mental efforts soon after a hearty meal. Few, however, are aware, that even slight excesses at the table, produce permanent depression and stupor of the mind. But where such excess is habitual, no elasticity of the mental powers is sufficient wholly to free them from the incubus that bestrides them. Like the overloaded bodily organs, the mind is gradually more and more weakened, until great efforts are out of the question, as the whole physical and intellectual constitution sinks into premature imbecility. But rarely is a man aware of the difficulty under which he labors, until he ceases to overload his stomach—then he finds such a buoyancy, clearness, and vigor of mind to be the result, as to astonish and delight, while at the same time it mortifies him to find how long his nobler part has been made the slave of his animal nature. Most strikingly coincident with these views, has been the history of intellectual greatness in every age.—The philosophers of ancient times were illustrious examples of temperance. In modern times, also, the princes of the intellectual world have almost all belonged to the same sacred band.

CHARITY.—Among the graces that adorn the Christian character that of charity has ever been deemed the brightest, the purest, the best. It is a gem of the first water; no cloud can obscure it—no rude hand sully its purity. Its sister graces dwindle away in its presence, and in the hour of expiring nature, it remains the only solitary companion of the departed one, that sustains unmoved the shock of death. Indeed, it may be termed in an eminent degree, the most distinguished characteristic of Christianity, the Alpha and Omega of all religious truth. And when the lips of truth uttered some of its first counsels, charity was the theme, the subject upon which was lavished divine eloquence. And where ever this heaven-born spirit has found its way, there it has diffused the breath of Paradise, shedding around the blessings of Providence, and proclaiming a jubilee to the sons and daughters of misfortune.

Our readers are aware that a contest has been going on for some time, between John Randall and the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company and others, in relation to the right to collect the tolls upon the Canal. Mr. Randall having a judgment for a large amount has proceeded to demand the tolls accruing on the use of the Canal. The subject has been brought before the Chancellor upon a bill filed by John Scott, Esq. of this city, one of the counsel for the plaintiff. We have seen an order just issued by the Chancellor, sustaining the ground assumed by the Counsel of Mr. Randall, and appointing a Receiver with directions to collect the tolls for entering into and passing the Canal from this state into Delaware, and deposit the same with the Court; while the whole amount to be received from the other end of the Canal is to be collected by the company as heretofore, and to be applied by them to repairing the whole line of the Canal.—Baltimore Gazette.

The Providence Journal describes a new invention, an India Rubber Boat, weighing only 20 lbs., and carrying a tun. It may be folded up and made portable. The editor has just seen one on its return from a rowing party to Martha's Vineyard.

A neat Compliment.—One of the neatest compliments on record is that paid by Lord Camden to Fox, that “his price was immortality, and he knew that posterity would pay it.”

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 3 ---
Voice of the Democracy.
ADDRESS.
Adopted at the Democratic State Convention, to the republican citizens of the State of Illinois.
Fertow Citizens:—The Constitutio
and laws of our country, eammon usage, an
spirit of your institutions:alike call upon you
to select with wisdom and in proper time th
Successors to those. oificers of povernmen
whose term of service is about -to expire
Your solicitude in the election of candidate:
for office is at all times proportionate to the
character of the office to be filled. Calle
upan now to exercise your judement in the
selection of a successor to the highest office
known to your government, you will be
governed in yourchoice by the true interests
of your country, and your desire to continue
ts action upon those democratic principles
which have characterized it under the admin-
stration of your present worthy and-high
minded chief magistrate, Andrew Jackson.
Distinguished among his fellow citizens for
he important servives rendered his country
the late: war with Great. Britain, for bis
nergy, wisdom, patriotism, devotion to de-
nocratic principles, and love of country Gen.
jackson wan called, more. than sixty vears
29, to preside over the destinies of a nation
¢ had served in peace and in war with un-
ommon ability and success. “For two sue-
essive terms has he been elected by the
meriran people to the highest office in their
it. Having discharged the stuties of Pre-
dent of the United States with distinguish-
dhonor to himself: and his country —having
aved the Union from dissolution by erushing
¢ ouliifiers of South. Carolina in their wild
areer—having reformed the government of
8 abuses, and brought. back ils action to its
riginal simplicity—having extinguished the
ublic debt af the nation, and made the
inion honored. and feared abroad, and prose
erous and glorious at home—having nearly
ushed that enemy of liberty and monster
"a republican government, the Bank of the
hited States, and taught the goveryment
France a lesson of American forbearance, 
tl given it to understand whatit might ex-
et from American firmness in the prosecu-
mn of a just and equitable cause, he willl
on surrender to the American people his
portant trusts, and retire to the shailes of
ivate life. In view of this course, it be-
ines us, it becomes the duty of the demo-
icy of this state and this nation, to cast
F eyes over the country for a man to sue-
ed Gen. Jackson in the Presidency of the
United States. And in looking fur such
man, it becomes our duty to select one. dis-
guished for eminent talents, firmness of
rpose, love of country, and devotion to
2 principles of democracy—one whose
ig services entitle him to our confidence
d support, one, in fine, whose course af-
ds the assurance that he will carry out
d perpetuate the princes of the present
ministration, and complete the glorious
rk of reformation begun but not complet.
, by General Jackson. Among the dis,
guished men of the nation, ean‘such an
be found? Before answering this ques.
n let us glance at the promment features

General “Jackson's. Administration—its
neiples and its action, and discover which
the leading men of this country, is most
sely identified with them.

General Jackson became President of the
ited States under the most auspicious cit-
natances. Called to that high station by
opular voice amounting almost to-unant-
'y, he entered upon the discharge of its
ies under the assurance that he would be
tained. To sweep off an immense nae
nal debt which parallized the energies of
government. was the first object of his
ention. To effect this, the useless and yn-
stitulional expenditure of the public treas-  b
-in-appropriating to works of internal im-
verent of no general importance was de-
d; and the means. thus acquired, was
ped to the extinguishment of the national
t. A tariff of high protecting duties,
s strenuously opposed, and all the efforts
his administration were exeited to bring
own. to a fair and judicious” standard,
that it might operate with equal justice
mn every portion of the Union. Owing) m
the opposition which he received in Con-  ti
on thia subject, the object could not be  cx
cted, until the hostile attitude assumed by  Js
ith Carolina, produced the compromise,”  of
 the protective policy» was abandoned. .U
d the wise course, directed by the presi- st
t been adopted by congress, South Cato- di
) would never have stooped “to calculate th
value of the Union;" and the alarming
 fearful crises which that state presented,
uld never have. been met and overcome
President Jackson's memorable Proclamas ::
y and the still more energetic: ‘Force
1." The sttempt to deatroy the Union, B
the part of the “nullifiers,” was, boldly,
t by the President and completely ¢rush-

On this vccasion every State. in the boc
ion (save. the nullifying) came promptly  U
the support-of the President; and so po- w
ar was his course, that hig worst enemies) 31
not forget Lo sing his ‘prawes votil the
nk of the United: States notified. them’ co
t-wuch shouts were not in-perfect: harmony’  f:
th the continuance: of ite existance. Fr
President Jack: -orin. his first. message ta v:
gress, called tha attentivo-of the. country  px
a United. States: Bank. : Convinced of  w
unconatitutionality, and aware-ol the dani- er
rous.tendenty of a # mammoth institu  it

lity 4 e ite, core
ani mise lets

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 4 ---
he earnestly recommeniled upon congress th
‘propriety of refusing it a recharter, and com
j pelling at to wind up its concerns. Its char
iter was to expire in a few years; and th
Brae convinced of the determined hostilit
1Of the President to its longer continuanes
(brought the whole of its immense power
 into active operation, not only to crush th
 President himself, but to force a recharte;
from Congress without his assent, For thi
purpose, in 1832, just before the election foi
 President came on, the Bank urged upor
Congress a petition. for a recharter; and, 3
bill for its continuance was carried through
both branches of the national legislature.
‘The bill was laid before the President for
his signature, before it could become a law;
and the alternative was presented him of
crushing the monster ‘or of being crushed
hunself. ‘The altelnative. was met with the
firmness and determination which has distio-
guished him when similar crisis have presen-
ted themselves, through life.—QOn one side
was all the moneyed power, and inf aenee,
and aristocratic wealth of the country, threat.
ening him with vengeance if he refused tu,
sign the charter. By complying with their
wishes, he could have conciliated and secur

ed their influence in the election just at hand.

But he was aware that the great body of the 
people, the working classes-—the deinneracy 
f the nation, desired the destruction of an 
institution” so much at war with their own 
nterests, and with the free institutions of the
‘ountry. ‘Tho? his own popularity, his own 
ame, the fate of his alministration were at 
take, he did not hesitate. He acted with 
us own peculiar promptness and decisinn,
nd laid before congress and the American
eople his celebrated “Vero Meseace.”
Phe die: was cast; and the Bank retainers
nd Bank: Aristocracy called upon the voters
f the country to decile, by their’ votes for
1¢ Presidency, whether they would sustain
seneral Jackson, or sustain the Bank. The
sve was made direct. The people were
ld if they elected General Jackson Presi-
ert they would destroy and put down the
ank—that the expressions of their opinions 
the Presidential election. would decide its
te. Henry Clay and Daniel) Webster
ere the leaders. of the Bank party—the
rmer of whom was the Bank candidate for
President in. opposition to Gen. Jackson.—
very feeling of selfish interest was stimu.
ted and aroused by the Bank on the one 
le, and the patriotism and love of country.
a9 appealed to‘on the other, to sustain the  «
President. ‘The people decided, as they will 
ways decide, a -controversy where their 
untry isat stake. ‘They sustained the  j
President most nobly and with almost unan- 't
ity. They decided against the Bank; and  t
e re-election of Andrew Jackson to the a
residency was the judgment of condemn-c
jon against'the Bank, pronounced by thea
Democratic party ofthe nation. ‘The State 
Itinois did her duty; and her Democratic  t
izens showed themselves superior to the
ducticns of Aristocrat. power and wealth.
yan overwhelming majority she came to
2 President's rescue, and declared by her
tes, her decided opposition to the Bank of
2 United States. To gratify its spleen,
d revenge itself for the loss of a re-char-
> the Bank seized one hundred and filty-
ven thousand dollars of the dividends be
ging to the. government of the United
ales, Ona pretended claim of ‘damoges in
ease of the French draft. This-act, to-
ther with the open and shameless inter-
ence of the Bonk in‘elechons—the = per-
isiots of tte ‘power to suit its ambitious
poser, led tothe removal of the public
neys of the’ United States’ Bank into
tain State Banks, thereby putting an end
all connection between it and the govern-
nt. Then came the “panic and distress
tem”? with all its artificial terrors—got up
a concert of action between the Bank-and
. Senute of the United States. At this
iod of time, the Nullifying party of South
rolina and Virginia, discomftted and over-
own by the President, formed a union
h. the old Clay. party,’ and tonk for their
nmon name the Whig party.” Thus,
Nullifiers of the South, the Federalists
the North, and the Clay porty every
ere became united in the present Whi
ty-—determined to forget: the: past an
it topether under the same. banner in the
nmagn cause of putting down General
kaon’a administration. ‘The leading men
the thus: formed "Whig: party” in the
ited States Senate, Clay, calhoun, Web=! im
rand Leigh, sounded the “panic. and
treas alarm,” snd gravely declared that
great. American Republic: was on the
y brink of **rvin and revolution.” The
nk ‘played its part with wonderfyl. skill
effect. In the course. of a few. months,
 whilat the Whig Senators: weie sound-
aloud the notes of alarm and ‘distress, .the
nk, by.applying the screws to ite debtors,
¢d rom circulation: twelve or thirteen
ions of dollars’ The real distress thus
asioned, was felt in every portion of the
ion. . Thousands of innocent citizens
re ruined by the operation of the panic
fem,” and commercial credit was ever

ete shaken to its foundation. But the papic
ld “not Jast long; for. 90 son ns citizens  be
an opportunity for cool reflection, they’
) Ibrough the deception, and tlie phastom
ished forever. «Congress adjourned——the
i¢ gradually subsided---commercial credit
t restored, and the “country soon recover-.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 5 ---
we) SEEMS MICO LO Create the. impressior
that the ‘distress: was occasioned by the ac
jUon of the povernment in removing the
pale deposites. . It was asserted that the
, Bank was compelled to: withdraw from cir.
peulation twelve iillions, in. order to: meet
; the loss of eight millions of public deposites;
jand thus prepate the way for gradually wind-
ng Up bis alfairs in view of its final termin-
;auon. But as soon as Congress adjourned
rand the “panic and distress system” becaine
‘uepopular, the Bank declared, apenty, its in-
tention of extending its circulation. If if
Were necessary ‘duriig the session of Con-
Rress to apply the screws -to is debtors, in
order to save itself fiom the consequences
of the removal of the deposites, and to pre-
pare for gradually winding up ite concerns,
it is difficult to find a cause sullicient to justi-
fy it in ceasing’ to act upon the same ptinei-
ple after the adjournment of Congress,
. 1Vis now nearly two: years since the pub.
lic moneys were removed frum the United
States Bank. Since then the State Banks
have been used as depositories of the Na-
tonal Treasure; and the experience of that
hme teaches us that they are equally as ad-
vanlageous to the General Government, in
ts fiscal operations, as was the Bank of the
United States. ‘They perform all that is re-
juired af them; and the experiment of using
hen for this purpose is highly satisfactory.
But. the United States Bank, thought to
onger needed by any portion of community,
snot yet dead. It sleeps, it is: true; but .
rom certain discoverable symptoms, its sleep 
+more to he apprehended than its most 
rakeful energies. Since the first dav of ’
November last, it has extended its loans_
early FIFTEEN Mittiows of dollars. What
an this tremendous extension of its business 
ean? -Its charter expires in less than one] s
ear, and vet it is extending its loans at the 
te of nearly TimEE MitLioxs per month.  
jae year ago, during the “panic and dis-  0
ess system,” it was neceasary to apply the  8
rews (o its debtors, and callin its loans at "
¢ rate of some millions a month to prepare  s
r the approaching close of its charter.— I
‘ow, when its end is close at band, it chan- t
‘8 its position, and loans its money more a
ofusely than at-any former period.  Itse
aries will expire during’ the next session b
Congress. By extending its loans 30 im-
ensely at this time, is it not preparing to ll
ply the screws to its debtors again next ¥
 and winter; and by calling in tweoty or
irty millions to produce a panic and distress  tt
ring the next” session of Congress, com- to
red with which, the one of 1834 was but ¥
bauble? In doing s0, what can be its ob- le
2. It unquestionably is to force a re-char-  ov
‘from an unwilling people. It becomes  ¥
: part ot prudence to‘guard apainst such  th
alienpt in time But. does not. such  an
arse of action teach us the dangers to be th
prehended from such an: institution?
ight its existence to be extended and con-
ued? ‘The democratic party of this State
Jof the whole nation has frequently de- pu
red against it. It will make one more
t and dying effort to perpetuate its exis-
cey and then will be numbered among
things that have ‘been, but are-now no the
re. Let the democracy of the State and  ter
the nation stand firm—tirm in their oppo-  in
on to the Bank, and in the support of their  one
nciples, and all will be well. “The victo-  Ur
though not yet complete, will soon be
ieved, the
Our relations with France are, at this tha
e, subjects of the deepest concern. ‘Thej Fa
rgetic “and manly course of President  ex
kson, calculated to sustain the honor and  the
nity of the country, has met with the
1¢ kind of opposition which was experi- Ca
ed in the last war wity Great Britain.) Ga
e French nation after having trampled
nour rights, by seizing and confiscating  cer
property of our citizens—aller having  sec
nitted the justice of our claim: for dama- me
thus sustained, and agreed, by solemn to
ty, to ratily it, positively refused, through
pational legislature, to make the neces-
y appropriations for carrying it into effect;; der
for four years has trifled with and insult- cor
he honor of the United States, by contin- tog
excuses and delays. Satisfied that France  den
trifling with us, ani determined to bring
to'a sense of her duty, President Jack- nat
recommended to the lost Congress the  can
ption of energetic measures. This course  bec
n the past of the President offended the  ryn
neh nation, andall the preparatory meas-  priv
sto. a war with’ the United States were  Shc
diately adopted in France. Our Min-  cati
ratthe government of France was dis- he 
ed, virtually so; and the French Minis- Stal
io the United States was notified to re-  will
home. These steps are always consid-  cou
the ‘prelude of war; and are iovked  Cac
y by nations at peace a¥ decided war] the:
sures. Such was the state of our’ sf-
_with’ France at the close of the Jast ses-  inst
ol Congress. War, if hot expected,  and
ceitainly thought probable. « At any  wou
it became.the duty of the United States] ing
wake some preparations, so: that if) war! iti
actually come, we mies not be entirely  disa
jepared to meet it. Governed by these; Ten
iderattdns, it wax d to make an
‘opriation of three millions of dollars, to
laced at the disposal of President Jack
‘and to; be‘bsed by him in puttin
try in a: proper state of defence,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 13, COLUMN 6 ---
‘the last war with Gréat Belitins..mampted
‘the Federatthig-nalitcatine nate in the.
United States: Senate. to refoxe granty @ the
President the neceasary means of puttiog

the country.in:a state of defende, in view of

our relations with France. “Mr. Websier,

Mr. Clay, Mr Calhoun, and Mr. Leigh, in

short, all the apposition Federal-achig amulli-
fication-party in the United States “Senate
opposed the ‘measure, But did they, only

Oppose the measure? There was one other
Senator, distinguished heretofore for his able

tad firm sipport of the democratic party and

of democratic Principles, who left his party, !
his friends ‘and -bis principles‘on this occasion,
ind joined himself fo that pibald faction, the"
Federal-whig-nullification-party; for what
rbjeet, we shall soon learn,

With this rapid glance at the lending fea»
ures of the present administration and the
rinciples of the demmeratic party, we may
ie enabled to discover the fran: whom most
losely identified With theni, and who will by
is talents and energy catty them outin ad»
ninistering the affurs of the general govern-
nent, : Bi

The democratic party. then«wishes a mag
of the .next Presidency, who is neither.a
‘deralist or a nullifier—one who is opposed
» principle and in practice to the Bank of
1¢ United States—one who will sustain the
onor and dignity of our country in our cone
oversy with France, and one. whose. emi-,.
cnt taleatsand long continued service in.the
Democratic party, and “in the cause of hig
untry, entitles hin to its utmoat confidence
id support. Again we put the question
an such an one he'-found? Has High E.
hite of Tenvessee filled the measure of
IT requisitions? “Let bs examine: He has
en spoken of as‘a, candidate for the Pre~
lency—we believe he isa candidates He ~-
# been a leading member of the democra
party, and a firm supporter of the present
ministration of General Jackson: He has
ppurted the President ‘in ‘all his leading”
‘asures until near the closeof the last ses-
of Congress. During ‘the. coureg of
t fall and winter, several of the democra-
Papers in Tevngasee named Judge White
acandidate fursthe Presidency, and: declar-
that the State of Tennesseo. would-give
vate for bim in opposition to-the candi-
fe of the democratic’ patty, nominated
» National Gonvention. The. Fede ale
ig-oullification-party, satisfied thet they
ff not electa man of their own, and
uking” that Judge White. would ba. able.
divide the Jackson party, came out in fa-
of him for -the . Presidency. Every
ling nullification paper in the Union came: -
in favor of White, and declared that he
‘the only man wh ped sucened pgniogt ae

democratic “party. °° Most of the Whig
Clay papers came out also in favor of 
Judge; and many of the leading se
members of Congress declared for nim.
e was the state of affairs . when the bill.
ing an appropriation of three millions to *

the country in a slate of defence, inthe —
nt of'a war with France came before Con-_
s- The bill was defeated in the Senates Bic
Judge White was the one mie ent :
Federal-nullification-whig- ce bite
pposers aod revilers of  e: Freadent, -
fusing this important appropriation. Not

single democratic republican peper in the
un, out of Tennessee, bad hoisted the
te flag; nor bad a leading member of
democratic party, bevond the limits’ of
Sinte, come out in favor of the Judge. .
ing todivide the democratic party to the

[illegible]
mask and openly came oul in. apposite
e sdoiabirtioieand joined himself with
oun, Clay and -Webster. --Atthe: same

he did so, he declared hie esteem and

uun for General Jackson, wishing,. like
in little politisians in this country, to

re the benefits of bejog called:a Jackson

, Whilst he was ot beart bitterly opposed

its oie
idge White now sppears. before the’
ae people not ps the candidate of the
reratic patty, but as the instrument. of
ition. Interests ied have oie
ther for the. porpose.of putting dow:
wratic siltionatiag The true. and
ine demotrauc republcau party af .the £
nis uposed to him; not. becanse he is -@
date in opposition to .their. wishes,’ but
use if elected, there is no hope of
yout the meanite and etlng te8
ples of the present adainis
WW be be elected by the Federal-mullifc
n whig parly, can it be expected that
iil oppose a re-charter of the United
s Bank? Can it berexpocted. that he
sustain the boner: and -igaity the
ry. in our. controversy with
% be expected that he will sdmipieter
[illegible]
: democratic party? He.
ment of the party:that
be whole course of t
1 be chayged: _
jth expegt this, a
bere an

ted phat of

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 2 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 14
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 1 ---
z ee re Bre Bloat nn.
siseippis Missouri and: Indiana, ere-pppo
to hia; and even old Gonnecticut bas Pty
how thrown. off the shackles of federais
“aad declared itself on the side of Semocrae
South Carolina, the nullifying State, 1s!
only State iv the U nion positively sure es
for White. Ts the State of Niinois, 9
geen supporting White? all the Clay pape
and the od Clay party; and a few, a fe
few, discontented and disappointed 9 ,
seekers, nen who never had apy. princic!
or they would vet fave stood firm im t
yanks of the democracy.

Where, then, iv the man on whom the d
mocratic patty can look with confitenee 
the support of those principles for whicn th
have been long contending?—the min d
linguished alike for bis eminent talents, 7
vate worth and public services: — The wh
democratic republican per ol the nat
have Jong since singled out Mario V
Boren of New York, as their must dist
guished and talented favorite, fo suces
General Jacksun in the Presidency 0 
United Stotes. His pre-eminent taler
purity of private character, long costint
and persevering efforts in the cause of
country, united with the unreiepting op
sition and persecution of his enemies, hi
endeared him to the republican party of 
nation. Born in the midst of poverty, 
compelled to: utroggte in carly life aga
the cireumstances of fortune, he grew u
democrat in feeling and in prineipte-
beeame early an actor upon the theatr
politics; and he has never ance, to this ‘
departed from those wholesome princi

imbided and adop‘ed in his youth. In
last war with Great Britain, and during

darkest period of that struggle, when
federalists of the east were secretly con

ing with the fnemy, he was fiving t

country ‘bis warmest. support; and bro

forward in the New York legisiature a 1

gure for organizing and arming the mili

his State, which has been termed, by an

juent democratic leader, the most ener,
war measure adopted during the war.

Froin that period to this, he has bee
cognized us one of the must prominent
of the democratic party, in the nation.

has been, honored with the highest offic
the gift of the people of his own state;
since the administration of General Jac
commenced, he has,been entrusted by
swith the most’) important responsibiliti
his first secretary of state; and alterwa
minister to Citeat Britain.” “At the las
sidential clection, he was chosen, by tl
mocratic Jackvon party, to fill the secc

© fice in the natioa—the vier presidency
Vaited States. In. all bis official st
he has discharged the important trusts 3
ed him, with distingsished ability. 1
bean the first, most prominent aod t:
sopporter of General Jackson, in all t
portant. measures of hiy administration
advocate of a judicious adjustment of 
if—the enemy of a profuse expendi
public monies in objects of internal 1m
ament of no national importance:—th
~oynrelenting opponent of the U.S. B:
and the active adviser. and supporter

President, in bit course pursued with F

To such 9 man, talented and ene
-and.thus closely identified sith the dev
ey.of the nation, we may look with

dence; and in giving him our support
/pressleney, we may justly expect t
will continue to act upon the principles

present adminisiration, and carry o

great work of reformation, begun, but

cannot be completed during the admi
. tion of Getscal lackion,

Governed by. these consideration:
with this view of the case, we have in:
éd our delegates'‘in the national cony

* to. be holden at Baltimore, to give the

tt to MARTIN VAN BUREN, o

otk, as the most ‘suitable person for
date for the presidency of the United
to suceeed General Jackson, In do
we are satisfied that we give the una
wish of the Stale of Miinois.

As the distingoished military se
rendered his country in the last w:
Great Britain; and big important civ:l
in the councils of the nation, have
RICHARD M. JOHNSON, ol Ker
a proud and elevated rank in the der
perty; we have requested our delea
the national conventicn, to support his
asa candidate for the vice presidency.
need not speak of his character or se
They are tov deeply engraven on the
of the Americaa people to require. aa
ses at our hands, He has long be
favorite of the democratic party of the
and, preseoted upon the same ticke
Mr. Van Buse, he will unite the ent

__. Boeratic support of the nation.
Te is to'be’ regretted, that every co

’ this state was not represented in this ¢

tion. “The want of a common uncerst:

and the uncertainty of which waa the

course to pursuc.in order to give exp
to the wishes of the democratic party
state, hax prevented many counties fron
represented jn thiy convention. ~ M
have been held in most of the count
represented in convention, all of whic
uneditously coreurred in the recomne!
[illegible]
senenties.may wy that thie con:
fenup:for the purpose of diciation, we

y odeciere that itis neither our p
or duty to consult the plegeure of the
ere oppesed to usin prinaple, and whe
to any tarans in their power’ to shov
spleen against those measures which 1
ult in their. defeat, Let the demoerati
ot Illinois be: firmin the prosecusion «
~objecta; let them be united in action
ncaple and in fetling; let then

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 2 ---
CIRCULAR OF WILLIAM L. MAY TO HIS CONSTITUENTS.
Fellow Citizens: — ie Fs
x compliance with a practice establish
by long usage, and very generally obsert
by the Representatives of the people, Tas
‘Tinyself of the first leisure moment since 
ts from the scene of my recent labors,
‘lay before vay a short account of the mam
lig whieh E hive endeavored to discharge
H responsible duties devolving upan meas y
‘immediate representative in Congress. ]
+ Host having been my first session, and be
youll the embarrassments 
jMisad vantages usually attending a. new ms
"iher,  indulge a hope that your justice
‘  ierahity will not require. at my hands
‘Teyience of having remlere! you very
“Fportant ses vices during my short novit
lof anly three months. Relying upon ¥
“ aeperosity fora faverable considerntios
OT tay offiets to serve you, f will _procee
lay befure’ you thet portion of the actio
 Congress in which our State and this dis!
d 19 more iminediately interested, and in w
CTL have to some extent particupated. ;
21 [ have tong since been iwpressed wi
d belief that the interests of the Staté,
iS  varticularly of thut portion of it whieb II
* I the honor to represent, would be mater
©] advanced by thecreation of a Surveyor
 neral’s Office As the reasons for that b
MEV will be found embodied in a report of
St] Committee on Public Lands, together w
4) letter addressed to the Chairman of the €
let mittee by myself, which report and 
af tave,  apprehended, been already laid
Ys tore the most of you, a repetition of th
gzuments to prove the correctness of my 
iow os considered allogether usnecessary
an early period of the last session I int
Ee  ced a resolution in relation to this subjes
I"  oursunnce of which resolution a bill wa
his ported -anthorizing the establishment
at Surveyor Genezal’s Office, and the apt
c-  ment ofa Surveyor General, for the Bt:
Hof tiineis. Kor the passage of this bill 
0  oxtremely solicitaus, and when f reflec!
PUC  it was. local ia its character, Leaanot r
froman expressiva of ny thanks tothe f
Fe  of Representatives for the obliging con
heS  oF ifs members who consented to take
He  and finally passed it, when many othe!
$19  of more general importance were post
and  aud never scted upon for the want of
had hoped that the Senate would have
bith  ced this dull atso, and that it would hav
9451 come a laws but. in that body it passe:
339145 a first and second reading for the w
pre- time to have further action upon it.
ler accomplishment of his measuse 1 have
dol- little doubt of success at the next Con
fthe  Relieving that the interests of a
tons, portion of the citizens would be mat
120"  advanced by an extension of the pre
: has tion law, J intradaced a resolution to t
ented ject at an early day of the session, a1
¢ UP ta resolution to enquire into the expe
rae of repealing 30 much of the law auth
ire of (tor sale of lands in tracts of 40 acres a
[to probibit the actual settler from et
most  more han tvo tracts of 40 acres eae!
lise Feeling the great importance of a
the  comsnnication between Lake Michig
the [iacis river, and being desirous
cond every exertion that was then
male by our State Legislature, [intr
a resolution directing the Committee on
and Canals to enquire into the expe
of making an appropriation in Script

the State in this great undertaking.
introduced a resolution, directed to th
committee, fora survey and ecatimate
Titinois River fram its junction with th
sissippi to the town of Ottawa, with 3
to obtain hereafter an appropriation in

surrounded +

auce,

at he
f she
the 
hich
stra

Tithe 

and] > : Gs ;
ruete (oF Mie, Unprovement of its navigatic
“tion tesointion was passed at the last ses

sip: our State. Legislature, and forwared
New by the Executive, asking Congress
andi- render to the State, for the purpose
fatee ther aid in the construction of the Illis
ze Michigan Canal, the residue of the
ane Lands, as well as the tract on whic
Dearborn is. sitvated, immediately g
to Chicago. This resolution reache:
an advanced stage of the session, and
do no more. than introduce it, and ¢a
subject 19 be referred to the Commi
Roads and Canals, which commixee,
want of time, made no report. The
ty with which the aorthern part of th
is populating, calls loudly for an ine
mail facilities. The advantages
from the establishment of post route
Various settlements that have sprung
ina very short period, are too obvious
ulustration; and to secure those ady
to my constituents was with me ano
great solicitude. A bill containing pri
for the ‘establishment. of a nuinber
routes in almost all the States, was re
204 great hopes were entertained of
aven- 2ge- Had this bill Lecome a law, tl
ing,  ‘isadvantages under which many rem
roper  Hements labor, and of which ‘they 
tasioit  justly complained, would at Jeast for t
sent have heen obviated. At my
boing and request,» provision was incorpo!
i cee this bili for the establishment of a mi:
hnve tem “Ferre Haute, in Indiana, to I
lation,  12 Mlipvis,thence to Springfeld, Bear
[illegible]
szot- Had the bill succeeded, the stage,
have] of passing through Shelbyville, as
ries loes, would have passed through De
ie  route more direct, over better grou
sheds accommodating to a much greater ex
oh: iravelling community as well as thes
parry  citizens. [also caused to he reporte
“they  bill, a provision for a mail route from 
the field to Chicago, via Waynesgille,
ington, &e., with many others of mi
portance, but all essentially: necessary
A Dill to. graduate the’ price of
Lands: was. agoin reportod at this
Coogress, and its friends were san;
b but, with many other
ance, UL. nt of Lime.

vices,
with
lions
piven.
ucky,
cratic
les ib
laims

We
vices.
iearts
prai-
n the
west;
with
e de-

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 3 ---
q siding in the Miltary oii hose retit
tnonement of the land sales. Those petit
Hl vere laid before the President; and it

not without a degree of surprise that 1
¥  his Proclamation ordering the Land Sale
°) June next. Believing: the month. of
an unpropitious time,  called on the P
Jent, in company with tie Hon. J. M.
TL INSON, and Mr Water, of MecDonr
I Geunty, and urged a postponement of
Bl) cates Git the month of October; but a:

reclamation had gone out, and the arra
m1 Tents made to have the sales take pla
" June, and as it is one of the leading fea
in the poliey of the Administration to
te  Me title of the Governinent ta the P
ar Lands extinguished 93 speedily as pos'

the President declined a compliance wit
request.

‘An act passed both branches of Cons
in which an appropriation of $32,006
made for the improvement of the hart
Chicago; and from the experience and
known ability of the gentleman employ
nd superintend the construction of that we
well grounded confidence is entertained
this sum will be judiciously expended.
act was also passed establishing three br
es of the U.S. Mint—one at New-Or
one in North Carolina, and one in Ge
This act is justly considered one of
importance to the whole valley of the
sissippi; an] when it shall be carried it
fect, cannot fail to furnish us with a
aie abundant supply of thesprecious metals
ane  may then hope to see all our surplus pr
‘At  paul for at New-Orleans in gold; ora
so much of it as wedo not invest ina
in of necessary consumption.
ree] A bill proposing an extension of th
if ajcuit Courts of the United States, to
‘ate  States which have not yet enjoyed
» of  vantage, passed the Senate, but was n
was finitely acted upon in the House, f
that  want of time. Peeling that we we
ain  Bpon anequal footing with the original
use  Whilst deprived of an itnportant br:
teay  the Judiciary,  was extremely. solicit
up  the pasange of this bill, and used: eve
bilts  ertion compatible with my situation, to
ned  NS. passages and Jam well assured
considerable majority were favorably
pas: ed towards it. “It is therefore.to he p
"he- fed, thet at the next. session ‘this pr
only  will no longer be withheld from us.

nt of Moat of you are aware that the AY
the  Boundary of our State has for som
very  past heen the subject of contention, a
ress.  Michigan has set up a claim to all th
jarge of country ying norll of an exst ar
isily [line drawn from the southern extre
emp- Lake Michigan to the Mississippi r
atef- Should the claim of Michigan. be ree
also  by Congress, it would have a most b
ency  influence upon the interest and prosy
izing  our young and growing State. By
went] of this territory, we would not only
ering  the wiveral lands lying within our Jin
we should lose the toa of Chicago
water! the most important commercial — pr
yond State possesses; and the canal-wh
'o se-  been looked to with such fond anxiet:
being means of ao mueh enhancing our wee
luced importance, would of necessity hay
toads  given up for many years, ifnot whol
ancy, joned. Upon the introduction of a
o aid! Congress providing for the organiz
 also! W isconsin ‘Territory, this question c
same! for discussion, upon an amendment
f the] by one of iny colleagues, Gov. Rey
Mis- defining onr oorthern boundary as at
view  established, and extending the souther
ioney  dary of the Territory to latitude 42
Aj and 30 minutes, Upon that, as Tin
all: other occasions in which the ris
to me interests of my constituents. were at
3 $Ur- was not found” slumbering at. im:
f fur- defended our claim to the disputed T
isand if not with ability, at least with z
anal although my love of fame was not s
Fort] as to tempt me to resort to: the fas
practice of writing out a'speech, (th
me at) which at least’ was never ultered
house,) and hand it over to the repe
at the publication, yet I trust the few remai
a moke were not wholly without effec
bed limits of a circular. preclade the px
ys I+! of an argument. upon a subject of:
! tate! interest, and I shall therefore conten
ase of with barely presenting one view of 
ulting which is, in my judgment, conclusir
in the contended by those who favor the «
-with- Michigan, that the ordinance’ of 175
» need  law of the land, and that Congres:
ntages right to depart from the language in
ject of  dinance which fixe) and ‘termina
ant northern boundary line running «
a west from the southern extremity :
orted,  Michigan to the Mississippi. Now
. sa prehend that if it can be shown that
Liban 1a never owned the land over which
oe craps as designated in the ordinane
ice hs ts of course that the ordinance itse
ie! me mere nullity, and of conseque
ae ngtess would have full power ¢
whole subjects and that Congress, ha
ronte ready exercised that power, and ¢
elt, the State of Illinois inte the Union 
town,  present boundaries, no power upon
i competent to alter or abridpe the
_ ead our Territory without the ‘consen
now  State first regularly obtained, By a
gh ination of the original grant from the
i Ay of Great Britain to Virginia, it will
nt the! that the ands ceded to the company
sident  balf of Virginia, extondad only. two
in said  miles northward slong the aga co
pring Old Point Comfort, near Norfolk in
oom] ia, and westward froin se9 to-sea, &
of tins! Comfort will be seen, is in.latitude.
. fis therefore apparent that the lands
by the crown to Virginia, did not e:
8 line drawn from the southern extr
tine of Lake Michigan by at least 100.1
ills of will:be seen by the following:

Extract from the 2d Chapter:
"Bac. 6 ado bee


jel
the
ha
m=
ter

be-

du

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 4 ---
wat

ns
a8
add

miles; and all thet space or circuit. 9
lying from the sea coast of the precinct
said, up into the land throughout, fo
into sea, west and northwest, and also :
ne lands lying within 100 miles of the c
si-  both seas of the preeinet aforesaid.”
ya- ‘The tiret charter, ested rath of April,
ah fextented along from the Sith to the 4!
grees of north latitude, but only 50 mi
jund, The third charter dated Maret
the $612, annexed to Virginia all the islands
ge- lin sou miles of the const. Those thires
: in ters were vacated by qua warranto bet
res  9th Judy, 1625; on which day 9 coms
issued for the government of Virginia, x
blic  making, however, any nituration in the
ble,  dazies estublistied by the second charter,
the culony was afterwards curtailed on th
by the grants to Lord Baltimore and t
Penn, and on the south by that to the p
€3%, tors of Carolina, The chartors of M:
wasland Pennsylyania are not inserted, as
states made no cession to the United
well New York, Connecticut, end Massac
J to [being the only states that had or laid
k,a tou Territory north of the Obio Ri
that west of Pennsylvania, the cesrions o
An  tates have given to the United State:
AD  disputable utle to the public Innds wit
nch- territory es far west ag the Mississippi
408,  which, by the treaty of 1765, had bee
aia.  lished ax the houndary between British
reat fica ond Louisiana,
Mis- Having, as I think, cleerly shown u
a ef. [of the state to the disputed territory
nore close this communication, alrendy to
We  >Y dwelling a short time pon our re
with France,
tis fumilinr fo you all, that a tre
least lefvcted with the government. of Ir
icles  July 1832, by Mr, Rives, our Ministe
Court of Louis Phillipe, by the provi
which the American government wa
ceive an indesnnity of twenty-five mi
3 franes for spvitiations committed on ¢
sad- merce without provocation, and wh
t de- been a subject of unsuccessful regoti
the [every subsequent administration, up t
the present one, This treaty, recog
‘tntes  less than just to those of our injured 
ch of  hose property had been seized and ke
's for contiscated more than thirty years
7 mained, up to the commencement of
y &X-  session of Congrese, unfulfilled, and
eCUre Jany apparent intention on the: part
hat a  French government to comply with he
spos- ubligations. Io this etate of affairs,
sum:  sident deemed it bis duty to lay bef
‘ilege

Cir-
those

gress, in his Inst annual message, a tr
nent et the case, together with his o
the courge most proper to be pursued
message, it is presumed you all have 1
are therefore nequainted with its reeos
tions, ‘The Houge of Representative
ed that portion of it relating to our di
with France, to the Committee on
Atlaira, who reported in substance
payment of the indemnity would be
upon, and “that it would be incompat
the rights and honor of the United
further to negotiate in relation to th
entered into hy France on the 4th da
1821,” and recommended that contin:
narations be made to mnet any er
growing ont of our relations with F
In accordance with this latter recomn
when the Fortification Bill, so called,
for discussion, after it bad bees am
the Senate, by whieh body the ordina
priations had been much. increased
turned to the Eouse, a further amend:
made tout, placing three millione of 
the discretionary power of the Pre
the event of a declaration of hostiliti
‘ion of  Patt of the French government pre
eu the next session of Congress, ‘This
ff Q the subject of much discussion in th
Hered  which it passed by.a large majority
‘OLDS,  again cent to the Sonate, by which
resent  provision for an appropriation for th
boun-  of the country in the event of adech
egrees War, was entirely stricken out. Tl
t upon  tilherad to the bill ns pasged by then
is and  somate adhered to ite own amend
ake, 1 the very moment of adjournment, a1
anes tl quently the bill was Jost, Having
st. unlimited confidence in the integrit:
triotism of the President, and betie
not one cent of the proposed app
would have been expended unless 
or the honor of the country imperi
manded it, [did not hesttate to su
hill in sllits etages, Believing, als
was batter and safer to invest the
with this diser:tionary power, than
an attack upon our extended and con
ly defonceless coast, or to compel a
ton of Congresa at an unusial time,
many of the states would be in part,
lieve one of them wholly unrepre
deemed it my duty with all my hono
leagues from this state, both in the §
in the House, to yote for this approp
“In time of perce prepare for war,
tional maxim not lege trite than tru
had no] the present time, when wa know no
hat or-  hour we may be subject to foreign ii
od our  Consider it peculiarly applicable,
and Fellow Citizens—-I. cannot close
Lake  2atke without expreswing the high
I ape tion I feel, and in which T trust you
Tisgin= participate, in being able to _essure
eon all questions of general policy
¢ line  egation from Illinois are perfectly
» it re- They now present an undivided ff
would  monizing both personally and politic
ce that] ‘Trusting that the course I havo
ver the  during the brief time I haye been ye
ing al.  sentative, although not ao successful 
iniited have wished, owing chiefly to the lim
ith her of the erevion, will meat your. gener
arth bation, and pledging myself to uso tn
ih 18] ertions hereafter, to accomplish your
mits of  ble wishes and hopes, and to promot
of the] terests and prosperity of our growing
lL have the honor to subscribe myse

therti

time
d that
t tract
J vest
rity of
hd Poccead
rnized
ghtinge
rity of
12 loss
vse all
ts, but
by far
nt the
h has
asthe
th and
to be
aban-
IL inte

The
sibility
» much
myself
e vase,
rs Lt is
aims of
’ is the

crown Respectfully, ivy, fellow
e seen ‘ WILLIAM 1,
on bee Springfield, Ill., March 20, 1835.

undred = — The Wife.—It is not unfrequen

it from  wife mourns over the alienated aff

‘irgin- her husband, when she faa made 1

Point] herself to strengthen and increase h

ment. — She thinks because he once:

ranted  he ought always to love her, and she

end to those attentions which first engaged 

nity of  Many a wife is thus the cause of 

les, as aeaiuet and sorrow.—-That wanan
not a-busbend’s love who will not

with smiles ayhe returne from the 4

the day; who. will not try to. chain

home by the aweet er ,

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 5 ---
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
CHICAGO, MAY 27, 1835.
land) Iersxois Rervsticas.-—We hail the
fore> ance of the first number of this paper,
1 8ED  od at Springfield. It is ot a large size
 the  chanical execution is creditable to the
st Of  org—its editorial department furnishes
of ability,—and above all, its princip!
the sound Demoerntic stamp. The
14 in  blinking of political questions-—no disp
12th,  provide'a loop hole through which to ;
with-  consequences of any and every politic
char- Tris such papers thut the people of 
e the  want. ‘Tho situation of thin state p
naat calls for fearlessness and independen
poun-  Part of the press, Let those who cont
The  charge their duties to the people, unis
north  by any considerations other than thos
Wa.  ciple, and they will be sustained by th
and We believe from what we know of 1
ye Republican, that it will do thus and
tates,  We bed it “God speed.’’ The extrac
isetta  are from its introductory remarks. Tt
Jaims  ment wil! find a hearty response fron
er and  mocracy of this scction.
[illegible]
on extent sufficiently greut to require
that) al newspapers. Her principles are
aah and in the broadest sense Republic
he reeult of her repeated clections, th
of opimon on the part of her Lezista
, ieht  PS Its recent session, places the fac
Tea doubt A large majority of the pa
lone lished within the state, do not harmo
ations the people in political sentiment, 1
AUONS  oconeion for another democratic jour
The principles of this paper. will
of Jefferson in 1798, and of Jackson
Athome we ask for an economics
frank administration of our civil off
arid intelligible laws, administered 1
and without fear—quiet industry, ne
tected nor embarraseed by acts of 
and that public wealth which is fo
willing ability of the citizen to 
largely when the public necessities
audthen only, We ask no splendi
licens projecta, no beneficent distribution a
cle saly people of funds first withdrawn 1
vo, row  Without an object—-no exclusive pri
Re late  SY 2 eschew eepecially the Bank of t
. States,
deh Ag to men; we believe that the p
aoletmmn authors of all political power, are a
ie Pre.  fest depositories, and they cannot toc
e Con-  LY &F too closely scrutinize the ¢
, tate.  (els agente. But while these agen’
sen by ourselves, and from among

1608,
t de

y was
nce in
at the
ona of
to re-
jong of
rcom-
bas
jon by
that of
zed As

acre we will not assure them, without p
Nworthy of our confidence. V

judge ther jealously perhaps, but s
ously, sometimes excusing errors,
best are fallible, but exacting in all
cin] course the most unyielding it
purpose ani an absorbing love of cui
a. word we are the zealous and thor
friends: of the present administrati
believe all ita acta defensible. all of
est, all directed to the public go
have, heretofore, doubted whether a
were public, their success ling pr
our error, and increased our confide
time to carne,

We believe too, that in the chore
agents, the more direct the popular
tion, the better; that when, by the
tion, Use people are called unon te
ant re.  tigh officer of state, they act most
it they devolve the trust won oth
illare at  S72 unwilling to witness amin tho ¢
dent, in  2 Preeident by the House of Repre:
#hd We ste not anxious ty twst the
ve Senate by « Vice Pesidentia
bill was [2MONS the members, We are
House,  theretore, to that mode of slecting
ind was  fr those elevated stationawhieh mi
ody the  the democratic party, fir its unite
defence  th? individuals who moa largely
ation of  Zeneral confidence, We wow our:
” House  ference for Mr. AN BUREN, of D
and the  President, and Col. REHARD A
nt up to SON, of Kentucky, forVice Presid
 conee-  When the delegates fron all the stat
he most  fresh from the peop,” shall ha
and pa.  Convention at Baltimoe and regular
ing that upon ite nominations, ¥e shalt sup
printion with our might as thenomirations 
o safety publican party of theJnion, wehe
uly de- Such are the opinona and feeli
nore this will direct our editord course, W'
that it  £ert them steadily an steadfastly, n
President  terted by anonymouelenunciations
» hazard  ctiblers in sdvance,sy. progeriptio
sarative  deed by patronage. Shonid others
onyoen- their adherence tothe priniples of 
n which  CMatic party, or desert its standard,
ind I be- nal, at least, shall snaintain and b
vnted, J  tboee principies till it cearea to ex
sble cot.  Shall we be content with a hesitatir
nate and  Of Our prineples, or a qualified supp
ation. men who royresent then in public 
ign na.  Publican literty may esfely tolerat

and at  chcinies ; fron equiyoctl friends it
at what  $0 fear. : vs
t only remning for as to solicit t
" of the Republicans of Tinos, an
my _re- ethers among aur citzens, ag can rer
ratifien- offence an occasion exposition ol
sill algo  Republican doctrine
he ie We have recvive: the first number
iter. we PAper published at Jacksonville, enti
erty's tontinel.’’ Ite politics aro fede
ly. and decided. Welike this, and shall
pba yoper further here.Ner.
ape The May Tern of tho Circuit C
appr i menced in this town on Monday last,
best ox.  24g Daren providing. Thero is.
easona:  ble business afore the court, most of
the in- ] es commencd at foriner terms having
tinued, ‘

tate,
tizen, Lower Cana.——A commissione
TAY,  sent from Englaid, to examine inte
the diflicultics which have so long agi
that a  Proyime. Visceunt Cautorborry has
tion of  Pointed to thy <emmission, and ine)
y effort  arrives Canada about the 30th of
attach- which time tho Provincial Parliament i

ahd Thi Hon. John Mills has been. app:
«heart,  tore) PF tho United States, for the
r own  Mamchuselte, in placo of Andrew D1
éservcs  Who Msigned in consequence of ill he
him. to,

mends-
referr:
iculties
*oreign

le with
States,
_ treaty
of July
*nt pre-
gency
L0CC—
ndation
same up
ded by
‘ nppro-

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 14, COLUMN 6 ---
GGUS, and ifs Speedy -enta Wy itdeeg 4 **
tact : - larg, tte,
ublish.  be indespensible’- ps Seren oe

[illegible]

ublish- THE co tes
[illegible]

care of ter has been received be Mt We leaty
iv not Hillsborough, from bia Mr, ite %
ition to  talists of New-York tif we i bai
oid the  COLES, has failed With a hi tong
result,  Pbiadelphia, in procutin : peed fe
is atate  UPOD the present canal hw W tay
tically  the letter states that capitan gt
‘on the  mOOe® Upon a mete Dredge ent

ol it dine that if the credit ofthe Sheba ‘

added BnY
lnenced » 1 SHY AGwUNt could be hoe
For our own patt we on aid

gies that this improvement would Be ep
“P' \ much influence in determin. Oo
eee  enue lete 78
1ineia \Tinois as our future home. Week
refi ther that the offorts of the hay L By
t below  this subject, did much
» . t :
[illegible]
the De-  people will take the matter in tase i
ate

and not stop until th
vagal to  ed this work: We coin tte ms

dition- a called session of the
eotinlly and may it not then be int.

Ie e ne
nvowa)  becessaty amendment to the

Gita ay,

re, dur- der toobtain the Toney? We una
heyond # bit! passed the Senate upon wlikiect

ers pub-  Could have Leen obtained, by
ize with  its being unpopular with th beh the fr,
i the Jits failure in the House. If raters
le we suggest
ye those  gusinted with gather tat Be
i 5. 13 OM PAQGC SENT MER on this ¢
in 1835, ject than ourselves, of g pi ia,

honest, :
1 tee i
rymnfow  PrESSION of public opinion on Hy bebe

partially leyiststure meets. Kor sute'ves ae
hor pro- endeavor to lend 5 Mesidiner
Congress,  Which may be deemed ty:t cytes
nd in the  duce the necessary amendeents ty
senor , vrlieveing that Our columns care,
[illegible]
people, we tener them to the relfy

pong the . oe ro
ay: thiesni livit communications from penteees ae

loges,—  Mnportant mneasure.— Mics Rabson,
e United oo Ey ae eee

Nationat ConventisTebias

‘le, the  letter from the Presi ied bt

ote, the  letter from the resislent, ay edited by fp

0 its BA-  remarks of the Nashvie Reelin f

requent-  was addressed to a penthens Nis,

nduct of ’ ben mut! i
dreokn. and has been published by ta aes

urselves, Washington, Fe.,
of, tobe  Ay Rev. Sir—] observed nteXars
4 would  Republican of the 10th inst. an aie ies
H gener-  ed “General Jackson's Preferese,”
ince the think it my cutv to notice.
heir offi-  At) my frisnds know, flat sea 12
egnity Of been in the Executive Charl tre
Neve In ee the Executive Chai, Ieaeae
4 abstained from an interferesce wi 3
rn. We [elective franchise; and kaye innirase
em hon-  upon the principle, that to the pers
J; if weed the exercise of this sectel 1
of them  enced by any considerations bet
ed 0.08 related fo the public good. del
efor the  editor of this paper, profewing ase
of pubiie great respect for my charecter, ware
nteryen- t2 connect ime persocally with asa
Sonstitue  divide the great Lody of Repbaas 3!
choice which they ote to make 1 fe
inwisely [dent: and by way of giving eet
rs. We  sinuations, appeals in the lagugear*
ection of  terest enemies, here an elsewbt, 9 t
dale independepce of the people asaile
puny ot iu Heaiony) which Le supa) ©
to.  altemptec, ,
era Every ane must sot that the cat
- present the editor in that article are me
suffrage,  form of friendelip, in der that Pt
hore ite  suceesstilly carry out fi purpaet
arm pro: the great republican Pein ed
w York, eudenvered to advance es Preset
" United States; nnd ene ot abet

JOHN. ar
nt. Bat the most important, in the neces!”

s, chosen ing wbove persons in any cages ¥)
y met in threatens the 2 daney of aan
decided  All my friends: must perceives hie
art them  Stent, my preference b& far e ne
“the Reo.  cemed, ought to be fer hin that
to be the ehoice of the ge
licuna: and vet, if tee
be Judge White, the editor
is ready to ery ont’ 10M ;

Under suce elrea 3, Beats
there ore yaroug i eas 8
una subject, [co
i rer tt

re whicli
ehnl
ither de-
P federal
nor se.
Aulter in  Yes 00
e demo  Fe! discretion in ¢
aa 1
You are at Min
t, Nor that, regarding the
-avowal  Of political power, I
tof the  to feelin wil and to the
® Re- Pat ding :
; -,  irue polley ¢
tala ples, OO send dele gal

ton general € pata ta Pre
 selecting candidates for tae PO""
prices Vier Presid rey ; and that to nt
without  selection belore st isimade, oF He
inmiged  fairly nade, as en

tive power, i to Gest

pe, sin in efieet, to Op?
govern.
Lael PT end the paper containing U

fer to, and request you (se
yl—open  tho editur, in order that he 1
otice the  misrepresent me. Acknowledg®

of this letter.

Lam, in ha:

tec.

SREY JAC i

rk com: / “ity fete
is honor  Rev. James Gwin, \aphivie,

" puis
wnsidera- eo

he caus- SeVERE Sra —On in
cen con- month, » terriblestorm swept "
coast. ae city
counts of sens ©
is tobe  he Steamboat Chi
nd erttle  or way from New 120?
teal this  seas, in the midsiol the Bt
ween ap- of rocks. Her betom 83
ected 10] hep boilers thrown overheat
were and crew were al SFP
toancet  jt ag said, will beat
the pilot,thro” his ows
pted AL] od, He was in the
strict Off bor of the hands,
Jap ea] with them. Asi ve
tbs the side of the steamnboa , be
ropes used in hoisting, Were
aie of the small bast ae ie

ital a
set of i

vain FO
hr,
oad

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 3 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 15
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 1 ---
alter” ind ten o'clock, to set The
snect Oe Frederick street dock. The

d communicated fire to the lum-
iol ne centre of the yard bot it was hap-
beat red at such a0 early stage of its
int is was mastered without much
Bie Adew minutes more might have.
if hat would have de-

a of the Florence Gazette,

A Cant assed to the Hon,
ab oP Moore remarké—" Do you wish the
Ga for your liberality tothe [ resident
sit eT "Tf go, hore it eeeyou had ap-
se dare to appoint. your nephew to the
piel Marehal of Alabama: but Gov.
a ot eos for good and efficient cause,
Jick, eer to give the appointment to
rasa Pie eo doing incurred your lasting

spear. ont in their selfish devires has

Dip caue of secession with many
been UO inal eupporters of the adminislra-
[illegible]

Pizeation in New Jersey.—It appears by
ee et of acommittee appointed at public
is fthe friends of education in 1828,

mettiog © ion of about 300,000;
a population of abou 0005
ep 15,000 adults unable to read,

12,000 children who were entirely des-
fiate gf the means O education.
panama
ine he Thiladelphia Gazette, April 5ty 1835.)

Away vo THE Wisk —An old mer-
pact of city remarkable for his prudence
ev eamercial operations, used to Say, where

hes qreat profits, there are great risks.
Ia ganeuine msn of speculative turn would
aoe to hima voyage and assure him that
Fre per cent, could be made on a cargo, he 
soall never listen to him. His observation
was, Htell me of an operation by which ten
cent can be male, ant 1 will hear what
ag hare 10 sy.” If he hal a shipment to
China or Bengal, and sume of bis fellow ship-
cars would tell him ‘we shall make five and
twenty per cent this year,” his uniform reply
mas, “ail you take my advice adventure 
of my tanis-and give me ten percent His
rie wap never to refuse an offer which gave 
aresomable profit, and although sometimes 
he did not receive a8 much as he would have
done by holding on longer,.yet he as often 
aroded a loss by a fallin the market and)
inthe long run wasa gainer by his pra-
dence. Htisthe desire of making money
toofast, het rums so many ofour young mer~
cunts. Noteontent to move on towards
tency al the slow, but sure gait which
thes fitters practised, they sett off on full.
gukpand the chances are ten to one that
thes get thrown before they are aware of
their danger.

Maa of war Launch—The last: Army
avd Navy Chronicle savs-—"* We understand
tat considerable progress has been latterly
male ia preparing the frigate Columbia for
hunching; this vessel has been several years
mn the slacks at the Navy Yard an Washi 
ingtaa, bot no work kas been done upon her
ors lang time until recently.

Sisatonrat, Dicsirty.—The “ Hanora-
Ye" Gail Moore, Senator from Alabama 
who it wil be recollected, was lately invited 
by He byslature of tiie state #e so. grossly
msmewnty, to resign, has condescended to
site hat jnsitation in a public address, the

o'pet of which appears not $o much to vin-
Gate his character in the estimation of his
cenctituents, as to belabor the Vice Presi-
cent with a collection of all the low slang,
aad Shmeaning, contepnitible jargon, which
“emserable panders of the Bank, have made
“Ser vocation to manufacture. And what
pes Mr Moore ina still more contem: tible 
fuets is so apparent in his "Address?
#loalmost stand confessed, that this bitter:
tattity to Mi. Van Buren, is the offspring
Hitly of jealousy and envy. No gentleman
j mach less a Senator, could so far belittle

“ioe as to take up the miserable argument

of the Magician of Kindenhook,” and sim-

oy Oats, sgainst any public man who has
iad largely the popular favors as has

Me Van Buren, and who still holds so Iargea

Hon of the popular confidence, unless his

1. 438 Jrundiced, and all his better feelings
ot in jPawusy and envy.— Man

; A Youse Victis.—Yesterlay morn-
Brat o'clock, the moans of a person
ef Sih e resident of the neighborhood
‘bs, a young eee, and on EXAMINA:
bath 8 van in the lost agonies of
San’, a8 found prostrate on the ground in

4

eet. She was immediately carried
whe fir pusc highway, white the person

ie discovered her, hastened for assis-
: rut she ced before it could be obtain.
ta sient from the Coroner, that she
ee eatly not more than sixteen year
ae me hones eet ten inch:
ha ma striped cali e
“rest bonnet or aal Seti
et ve Since learned that the history 0
sng eture is truly melancholy. Sh
_erenleen years old when she per
te, Rien miserably in the atreets. Bu
it fee fire she died, she was the ob
tentifi . . care of parents and triends—
‘otsnatele” aved, innocent and happy.
a te h the did not long servive he
a he her space that intervened be
oan tas from home and he
etch Pitag ‘ through every grade
Dee and died, as we learn, fror
*gtish of tind.—Phil. Gas.”

John Anderson, of this city, ar
pate prem, Esq. of Bath, have bee
Commies ¥ the Governor and Counc
eel ene? Visit: Quebee for the pu
oho the ftting with the authorities the
Rane? reuse to be derived from
Mise Portiaen a. es to that city.-

ener

4

he.

Bt

+ Won
ity RSEDICT ARSOL Dal"
the iad gh: Was on a visit to Mess Prove
Mn, Fadl by leet rad bis wi
to the city of See her houee,:
a ew York, in
md the first onisr

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 2 ---
night be heard ata distance, and many feared
hat her reason would be shaken from. its
hrone, Several of the officers at West
Point, at that time, wrote most affecting de-
riptions of her wretchedness ; and went so
ar agto think that the wounds given to the
ieart of an elegant and accompliehed woman
feserved as much punishment as the treagon
Arnold had committed. Washington was
leoply affected by her situation, and rendered
ier every amistance in his power, and with
rreat gallantry sent her a letter of gafe con-
luct to the lines. Mre. Provost was the
vidow of a British officer, and to ber Mrs.
Arnold could unbosom herself; and being as-
ared that no one ‘vas near but those of strict
ionor, Sho: threw oft-the maak, and thanked
Gel that the farce of hypocrisy waa over, for
he buted to be an actress auy longer. She
aid that eho had commenced the correspond-
mee with the British commander, and had
ought her huskand to the deed at last : ata-
ing also that she had Jong obhorred the Amer-
can cause, and was happy that ehe was free
rom the rebele. This spoils the pathos of
nany a brilliant description of her patriotism
ind ‘sensibility, but nevertheless, the gener-
us feeling in’ which they were written will
till remain as proofs that there was nothing
evengeful or low in the dispositione of thos
vho achieved our independence.—Hnopp's
Life of Aaron Burr. *

Mowing Machine.--The Western Farmer,
)new agricultura) paper published at Cincin-
ati, contains a plate representation of a ma-
hine to cut grain in the field by horse power,
omething like the horsh rake. The machine
son wheels, which are driven close beside the
tanding grain, with cutting instruments pro-
ecting into it, and moved by a cog wheei,—
"o keep the straw. erect while it is cut, two
owy of pikes, ouc above the other, point for-
yard into the grain, and the cutters play be-
ween them,

Hos. E. K. Kane.—This gentleman
rrived in town on ‘Tuesday and remained
‘Thursday. Upon learning his arrival, a
umber of our. citizens convened for the
urpose of alopting some method of ten-
ering to him an evidence of the regard in
shich they view him as acitizen anda
tatesman, The following are the proceed-
igs of the meeting, together with the re-
ly of Mr. Kaxe: dechning the invitation
24 public dinner. We will take the liber-
y to remark that the familiar and unosten-
tious deportment of Mr. K. while here,
vas highly gratifying to his republican friends
sho had the pleasure of seeing him, and
vas such as became the public servant of a
Democratic people. We hope an opportuni-
y may occur ere long when our citizen can
ave a few hour's social intercourse with
im.—-Jacksonville News.

A recent letter from Algiers says:— Our
uildings are multiplying; the European
opulation amounts to 10,000, our farms are
ecoming daily more and more extensive,
ind our cominerce has augmented so much,
hat the receipts of the Customs have exceed-
d 1,509,000 frances. The. port has re-
eived 70) ships of all nations. Our trade
vith the Arabs is becoming of importance.
a 1834, the exportations of leather; wool,
vax and oils, weie considerable. The Arabs
re willing to submit, and wish to be protec-
ed against the Hadjoutes, the only tribe that
einains in actual hostility to us. The Co-
onial Society of Algiers is constanily urging
nore prompt and.eflicacious measures from
he Government in order to obtain the most
ceneficial results.”

What share can I have in the destines o/
ny Country ?——The same that the rill has in
he rivulet, and the rivulet in the sea. Shuold
very little streamlet tarry at its fountain head
where would be thé river, that dispenses fer-
ility—the ocean, bearing commerce and
ealth upon its never resting tide?

Bearing Flannels.—As the genial aunshine
of epring advances, those nccustamed tc
wearing flannel under garments are too mech
disposed to Jay them suddenly aside, This
isan error of great magmtude, Keep them
on until the east vind is no longer elaborated ;
Lill the flowers are blooming in the flelds, Aes
a uniform atmospheric teperature establishod
A multitude annnally, are hurried to an earls
grave, in the very meridian of life, in conse
uence of not understanding, or by neglecting
this simple, though important advice.-Med
Journal.

A Hoax.—- The materials of the old fram
house at James’ slip, in which the man t
sail to have been murdered, was yesterds
sold by the proprietor’s agent for a few do
lars, and the purchaser wishing to get it pul
Jed down cheaply, raised a little riot on bi
own account, and excited some seamen t
pull down the house in order to avenge th
death of poor Sheridan. The seame
‘tnothing loth,” soon collected in considera
ble numbers, tore the house to the groub
and then gave three cheers and made off le
the police should catch them. The man wl
purchased it, then carried off the material
‘nota little pleased at having got so muc
 work for nothing.

 Rats.—'The Exitor of the Boston Cent

tinel says “these are offensive vermin.”
the language of that great great charter i
we respond, “We hold this truth to be’ s
evident,”

March of intellect —A fontman. seeit
in one of the papers an article headed, ‘ru
ture with China” exclaimed to a fellow

 vant! “here Mary, would you believe it, th
have gat the story of my breaking the 
things in the newspaper”?

eae

Editorial Notice-—Ao Irish brother do

south says his exchange list is too large, a

’ wishes it understood that ‘this is to notify

 those that do’at receive the paper that th
 exchange is stopped.?? ee

Theatrical jeu d exprit.—The other nig
at the Park, the audience pertinaciously
unreasonably encored the, furious dance

Col. Wildfire. which winds up. by kicking 9
of-tea. things. At length Hacl

ard and apologized thus: "Lad

and gentlemen, I snould ‘be most happy to
peat tho dance, but am ont ot broath,
what is Foreo, t of cups

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 3 ---
wrk OF THE EXTRA GLOBE:
¢ undersigned pro to issue the
number of’, new series of the Extn Glake
on Monday, the 25th of May next, and to pub.
lish it weekly for six months, making twenty.
six numbers ; the Inst to contain an index t
the whole, It will be printed on fine double
royal paper, made up in quarto form, like the
Extra and Congressional Globes published by
us last year. ‘The 26 numbers wi!l make an
suerte foyal Bere.

twill contain the principal original article
of the Daily and Sem)-AW eekly Globes, foreigr
and domestic news, notices of public meetings
the elections, and public proceedings in every
state in the Union, in relation to the canvas
for the next presidency-a contest which th
indications of the present year will go far t
decide,
__ The first number will contain the proceed
ings of the Democratic National Conventior
to bo held at Baltimore on the 20th of nex
month, An excellent reporter has alread:
heen engaged to report the proceedings of th
Convention, and the speeches which may b
made on the occazion,

We request the favor of those friends t
whom this prospectus may be sent, to circu
Iste it for the purpoze of obtaining subsenber:
A copy of the work will be sent to the newa
papers that copy this prospectus, :

_ Subscribers should forward their names ii
time to reach us before the 25th of May, 
they do not, we may not Se able to furnis!
them with sll the numbers; becauge the worl
is put atso low a price, that we cannot affor:
is re-print apy numbers that may be exhaust

Ttrms,—One dollar per copy, in advance
eleven copies will be furnished ‘for ten dollars
twenty two copies for twenty dollars, and 2
on in proportion.

The price of this paper is so low that we
cannot afford to openaccounts with those whi
subscribe for it, ‘Therefore, no attention wil
be paid to any order, unless the money accom
panies it, BLAIR & RIVES.

Washington, April 8, 1835.

CHICAGO PRICES CURRENT,

CONRECTED WEERLY.

Salt, bbl $275 a 3 00
Flour and Meal—
Super fine bbl 5 00 a G50
fine "5
Buckwheat flour =” none.
Indian meal bush 1 00 a 1.50
Grain— ,
Corn bush 1 00 0
Onts ae 62a 73
Wheat re C32 60
Provisions ¥

f, frovh Ib 4a 6
do aalt mesa bhi 10 00.841. 00
do do prime "900
Pork, mnesano. 1, " 20 G0

none, 8, ** 16 00

One hog "1400
Fimo 42 00

Dried beef Wb Wa 12

Hams, smoked * 10

White fish bbl 6 00

Butter, heg Ib Wai 2

Lard Mid ¥? a 9

Cheeso Ib Wa 12

White beans bush none,

Potatocs "1002150
Tallow, lb 92 10
Hidea, dry ib Ba 9
Candles, box tallow b 2a 4
Bujlding Materials
Lumber, ass'd 1000 ft 28 O09 20 00
Shingles do 300 a 3 50
Square timber, length f 5a 6
Brick, per 1000 5 00 a 6 00
Stone, cord 600 a 6 50
Lime, bbl = 75a 88
Wand, cord 2 50a

ALBITALS 7

OF VESSELS
an AT CHICAGO, 1835.

. May 20, &:
2.

“Hellen, Chase, do, "

“ Jewe Smith, Deurv, Green Bay,

& Brig Wools, Wagatalf, Butirto.
4” Inciana, M’Rinatry, do.
* Schr. Hucon, Eno, da,
ba Michigan, Dison, doy
23. 4 Barker, Sims,  do,
“4 4 Hilinots, Pickering, Cleavland.
24. Phillipa, Vowe, St. foseph,
2.  Sean. Doncan, do.
* § Liswallyn. Clark, One,

38 Hallep, Chase, St. Joseph.

# Bloop Westward Ho, Banks, Bin

MARRIED,
ALS miles Meadows, near Lewiston on t
27th ult, by the Iter. Saarwal McBurney, Jor
9. C. Hooas, Exq. Postinaster, Chicago Ill, 
Miss. Anse Maria Bareny, grand daughter 
Capt. N. Leonard, of the former plare.

~~ Wanted Immediately.
N apprentice at this office to the print
yee A good opportunity is offerc
by an immediate application:
Muay 20th, LES.

TO PICE,—-Thoe publ

N are hereby noi th

the commanding officer at Fo

Dearborn, at Chicago, lingi

ip authorized to call in, and receipt for all Ur

ted States Annes and Accoutrements,in the han
of citizons ot -he country.

All persons having such arros or accoull
ments in their possession, by purchase or oth
wiso, will do well to bring or send them in, a
obtain the necessary receipts, with ss little ¢
lay as possible, as 9 contrary course may su
ject those found Possessed of them to a proses

i the law.
tion, and the penalty o ". GREEN,
Major bth Infantry, Com'd. Post,
Fee Siar

 wyoT ewe Pro caala will bo received 1
aoe. de Sist of May pzoxisno, for the del
ery of FRESH BEEF’ for tho supply of 
Troops at Fort Mapkinac AF two years, co
yy he
mencing on the Int NY, W.. PENROSE,
Lieut. 2d daft’
Fort Mackinac, iw

~ Administrator’s Notice.
prsigned having taken out lett
1" ee eon spon the entate of If
iam Laird, deceased, late of Lapalle county,
Ali persons haying claims against aid 691
are requeated to prasont them to the court
Probate, properly authenticated, at the torn
anid court, to be holden at Ottawa, on the bet
Monday in July next, at which time and
1 ahall attend to make # settlement of said
tate: and all tome inde ad ees
fs ent,
rege este TLINDA LAIRD, Administratri.
[uncertain: dateline appears to end May 22, 1835.]
On Consignment,
BBLS. of old Ohio Whiskey:
Lt LEATHER;

BOL ‘
and childrens, Boots &
Menn, woman’ ONES, KING 4 Ct

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 4 ---
ERST rate BARKER; one who is well ac

po avaiited sit spe bnsinest, will iene
and constant em it.

at thin office. May 25, fr eal tt mel

—. Seabee Reaver ainrn

Chicago & St. Joseph Packe
HE new Schooner LLEWEL
m LYN, Crank Master, wi

y for freight and passengers, du
ing navigation, between the mout!
of Bt. Joseph and Chicago. For freight or pas
mae AP, ly to the captain on board.
_ May 25, 1835,—Gt.
OTICE.—Tho Bank of Michigan, an
also the Farmer's and Mechanic's Ban
of Miehigan, at Detroit, will be received at thi
off ae E. D. TAYLOR, Receiver.

Twig This.

LL persons having unsettled accounts wit
me, that was made before this spring, mu:
pay up by the Ist of June, or they wiil be auc
without further notico—fair turning.
J... MULFORD.

ilardware, Stoves, &c.
phe undersigned have formed a connectio
in the merchantile business, under the fir
of Jones, King & co. They aro receiving b
Brig Illinois, a farge and genoral assortment o

Hard Ware,
Cuttlery, Nails, Iron, Stecl, &e.
A largo and complete assortment of

STOVES,
and Store Furniture, Iron Ware and Sao Mi
Geering, which thoy offor at wnoLxsate or 1
TALL. WILLIAM JONES,
BYRAM KING,
H, B, CLARKE,
May 26, 1835.
New Goods! New Goods!
HARMON, LOOMIS & Co.,
me received by the late arrivals, part «
. their spring supply of GOODS; conni
Sing of

DEY GoOoDs,
Groceries and Mard Ware.

which they offer for salo unusually cheap! at the
store in South Water-street.
Chicago, May 2G, 1835,—2w-6. :
RUSSEN L E. HEACOCK,
Counsellor and Attorney at Law,
Chicago, Minos.
ILL attend to all business confided toh
care, in his profession, Io will also ¢
the business for all who may employ him, i
land conveyancing, having the commission 
the peace business dono as reasonably, and mo
conveniently. fo will also open and keep 
the samo place, a Lund Agency Offices, for tl
purchase of land, the payment of taxes, Kc, fi
all who may give him business in that line; ha
ing been 9 revident at Chicago for the lastcigl
years, and being acquainted with almost ever
section of land for the firat 30 milea of the Ill
nois canal line, and for the distanco of mar
smiles around Chicago, ho thinks himself we
qualified to give information on that subject, ar
dlo the business for non-residents, as any othi
in the state.
Letters addremed to the aubscriber, post pai
will be attended to. +
Office in the 2d story, opposite the Exchan;
Coffee House, corner of Lake and Franklin-al
Chicago, May 23, 1835.61.
Dry Grocerics,
LARGE lot is now offered for salo, by
4m May 26, JONES, KING & CO,

For Rent,
WO Stores; ono on South-water stree
@ and one on Lako strect; also one ¢or
fortable Dwelling. Enquire of
3. T, TEMPLE.
Chicago, May 27, 1835.—-3w-6
For Bent,
CONVENIENT. Stores House, on Wate

street. Enquire of
DAVID CARVER.
Yay 27, VE

YPICE.—Tho co-partnership heretofo
N existing between D. 0. Robinson and 
A. Neff, is this day dissolved by mutual conser
all persons haying dealings with gaid firm, w
please to call on D, O, Robinaon for settlemes
D..O. ROBINSON
R. A. NEFF,
Chicago, May 11, 1835.——305,
FEW barrels WHITE FISH, prit
as tide, forsaloby = Jones, King & ca.
May 18,"

endian

Valuable Farms for Sale,
NUMBER of valuable improved Parn
situate along the linc of the Jilinvis a

Michigan canal, some of the best locations

the country. Cc. C, VAN HORN,

Hickory Crak, May 18, 1235.—49t¢.
N. B.C. C. V. EL sill be in Chicago fre
the 250) until after the land sale,

i

NO LET—1 Store,  sm
Dwelling and a large hot
auitable for a Boarding: House. FE
quire of C. H. CHAPMAN.
FES ae Bish.
WTOTICE.—Tho connexion in busin
between the subyaribor and Wm. H. Brov
was clogod the Tat of January last. ‘The ¢
+] upon tho debts due the firm of Russdl & Bron
am also ha are will be Yeceivnd by b
‘ and good and sufficient discharges given there!
é Pe. USSELL
Chicago, May 49, 1835,—3w5,
J, CURTISS,
Attorney and Counsellor at Law, an
SOLICITOR IN CHANCERY,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
FFICE in South Water-streot, firat d
§) west of Messrs. Jones, Kina & Co, 
atsirs-) May 18, 1835.5

Lots for Sale.
HE sobecriber offers for sale, on lib
Jenna, B_ number of jo\e, eligibly situs
in the School Section, on the river, and in
original town. ’ gE. K. HUBBABL
Chica,z0, May 10, 1835.51.
GEO. W. FORSYTH,

Attorney at Law,
; Ottawa, Mlinols. ae
Agencias and. Conveyancing will also x

COLLINS & CATON
ATTORNEYS & COUNSELLOKS AT L,
And Solicitors in chancerys

FFICEtwo door east of the Baptist Chi
PF up stairs, South Watar-atreot.
Chicago, June 4, 4534.
P. B Convayances, contracts, Se. exee
in the neatest inanner and with the groatest
teh, Jamas He

rete erat

2

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 5 ---
HOUSE pleasantly situate o
“Randolph-stroet, nearly opp
mee public square, Enquiry
office.

Pocket Book Found,

POCKET. BOOK is lof at this office whit
Fi was found tg Indian in Chicago durin
2 payment last fill, containing some mone
which tho owner, (F. Caldwell it ie pate
can have by paying a remuneration to the Ind
an, and for polishing this notice, by applyin
at this office. May 19, 1825.5

For Sale,

A FARM containing about 13
acres, situate on the river Ds
Plains, 12 miles west of Chicagi
The farm is beautifully situate wit
the tollowing improvemepts, wit
comfortable Log House and Bari
40 acres under fenco, 2) ploughed, a young: nu:
sery of 2 acres, consisting of apple, cherry, peal

and quince. Apply to
: J. BATES, jr. Aue'r.
May 20, 1835.5

‘The subscriber is prepared to dispose of an
property, by AUCTION, or oncomaissioy, thi
may be offered, at tho old stand.

i J. BATES, jr. Aue’r.

United Statcs Mail Stager

a Four Horse Post Coaches, via. Dixon, (Dis
on's Ferry,) rwick a wrex, will leave Gi
lena, every Sunday and Wednesday, a1 3 o' clac
P. BM., and leave Chicago, every Baturday en
Turaday for Galena.

To Rent:

LARGE and handsom

ly finished Store of 20 b

45 feet, including. countin
room. Also, three beautif
roomns suitable for offices. ‘The above are sit
ated in the handsomest part of Chicago, ((
“Kinzie’s Addition” to this town,) and by 4

 the best Gnighed rooms in the place. For fern
apply to JOUN H. KINZIE,
Od. 1, 1834,

J. 8. C. HOGAN,

FFERS 31 Whalesuleand Retail, at his Sto!
in South Water Strect, one door belo
 the Post Office,

Dry Goods, Groccries,
Hardware, Crockery and Glass Ware,
Also—a quantity of Bby 10, and 7 by 9 Minde
: Glass and Sash.
@ doz. corn BASKETS;
ZOO sides Sole Leather ;
HO do Upper do;
@ doz, Caf and Kip Shing.
ALSO

Just reecived from the Maasilon Iron Work
(Ohio,) 4 tons superior CASTINGS, consintix
of Potash and Sugar Kettles;

Pots, with and without covers, aaa'¢. size
Diah and Tea Kettles; Harrow Teeth;

STOVES, &c.

which he will sell as iow for cash as can-
bought west of New-York,
July 30, 1834. ‘

Boot & Shoe Making.
HE subscriber having recently cummenc
the above business, next door to P.-C
hen’s Store, will be kept on hay
a good assortment of

 abe ROOTS,

suited to the call of the country. Gontlem
wishing Fine Boots, water proof, will be accor
modated with the best materials, and fashion
blo style. Most kinds of work kept constant
 on hand, or mado to order on short notice.
, _L. W. MONTGOMERY,
Chicago, Des. Vb, 1833.
Agency.
TEW-YORK American, Daily, Tri-weeh
and Semi-weekly; American Hongh Ho
Now-York Farmer, Rail-Road Journal and R
jeter of Internal Improvements, Mechant
Jazazine and Register of Inventions. Subscri
tions for the above publications received by 
Srewant, at Col. Hamilton's office.

taution.
AN poraons are forbid cutting or drawing
way any Timber or wood fron: E. H, of
W. quarter section No. Two, in Township»
 Thirty Fight, North of range No, Fourteon Ea

Also E. H. of the S.-W. quarter of section
two, in Township No. Forty, North of Rar
No. Thirteen Eaat, under penalty of the Law

8, C. GEORGE.
Chicago, Nov. 21st, 1204,
Musical Instruments.
NEW and Extensive assortment of’ 1
most modern and approved musie and
~ steal Instruments, euch as Piano Fortes, of e
Ny vant and newest fashion: Clarionett and Bug!
jultara, Violins and Violincellos; "Trumps
* Druma, Bass Denna, Fites, Flagiletts, Poe!
Horns and Hauthoya, &c,

All of which will be sold at unusual low
~ ces, The above articles to bo found at the 
8) troit Book Store, and at Jno. B. Piquette’a Js
 telry Store, Detroit, Nor. 8, 1O34.—5ief

4 =
NW GGODSs.
J, L. WILSON & CO.

RE now opening an extensive ateck
A Dry Goods, Groceries, Hardware Crock
&e.7--calicoes, vloths, sattinetts, circassin
flannels, sheelings, Tickings, &c. Ready mi
elathing. an

Coffee, tea, sugar, pepper, spice. liquors, ¢
[illegible]

gaws, wrought iron hinges, &e,

Pp TROY NAILS, and Windmn Glass,
Dearbom st, neat door to (ho "city boot shoe 
loather store. Chicago, Sent, 1854.

Goods al Wholesale.

UE eubseribers are now receiving 

offer for sale, at Wholesale and Ret
au extensive arsortinent of

Dry Goods, Groceries,

Hardware, Crockery de»
Deslers in the interior will find it to
advantage to call before they go to St. Lo
or the East, as there goods werd purchane
a1) importers in New York, and can be affor
nl] at a low price. HUBBARD & Ce

ek

EDWARD W. CASEY,
10) ATTORNEY & COUNSELLOR AT LA
PPFICE adjoining that of the Clerk of
oO Cireuit Court. aS

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 15, COLUMN 6 ---
“WNNE subscriber, who kept the Greenville
i Springs a Harrodsturgh, Ky.; in 3824,
 _ and late the Tennigton Hall, in

Hillsborough, U., and lant the Man-

sion House’ in Springfield, Ul., hae
Vy removed: back to” his’ old stand in
Hillsborough, where he bas opened «

 Mouse of Entertainment
for travellers and others who may favor him
with a call, His house is convenient and com-
; fortable; hia tablo will be furnished with the
best the country affords: his bar will be suppli-
ied with the choicest liquora, and! his stable will
bo well sopplied with forage. Travellers may
 Peat asen that naexertions shall be w inting
; on his part. to render them comfortable, Thank-
 fal for past fayors, he hopes to. shar: a continu.
; ance of public patronage. ;
i. ah B. His namo over a1 dpor will bo his sign
! for the present, » C. BENNETT,
i October, 1831.— 1,

i saa eae ES
Boot, Shoe & Leather Store,
WM. H. TAYLOR,

rAS opened nn oxtenmve Boot, Shoe and

Leather Store, on Dearbsrn street, a

few rods north of Mees Newberry g-Dole’a

Store, where may be found a preat variety, of

as good stock, ax can be foun at the “far

Weat,” which he offers at Wholesale or Re-
tail, ot the lowest prices, consisting of

500 paire men’s coarse BOOTS ;

300 do, do. fine do,;

800 do. do,’ coarse SHOES ;

00 do. do, fina do;

300 do, Lavies Gaiter, Prunella and Mo-

toceo Baois; .

200 do, dow calf -do.:

500 do, do.-prunella, kid and sen) Shoee;

200. do, children’s Boots and Shoes ;

50 do, infant's Booters ;

Sole and Upper Leather, of firet quality, for
sale cheap tor cush. :

W.H, T. Will monefacinre to order, on
the shortest notice, all kinds ef Boots and
Shoes, whieh he will warrant of the best of
leather and workmanship,
Chicago, July 8, 1334.

TO MERCHA
PATTERSON, GARDNER & MATHER,
IMPOKT AND SELL
Chinon, Ginss, Rarthern Ware and
Looking Glasses,

T the lowest New-York prives, (adding on-

ly the loweat rate of carriage, )
Al the sign of the Large # itcher,
No, 112, Jeereasos Aveser, Detroit.

The above firm boing 9 branch of: an exten-
sive house at. Ruffalo, N.Y. (well known thro’
 the western country,) onder the firm of Gard-
ner & Patterson, aro detarmined to eell every
article in their line, az le and on na-accommesr
dating urms ag any house in.ihe United States.

The subscribers, from their acquaintance with
the various Potteries in England, have been a+
ble (by personal attention) to make such nelee-
tions an will warrant them in asgertiig that their
ware, in point ot quality and elegance, is not
inferior to any imporied,

Patterson, Gardner & Mather,

Looking Glasses.
P., G. & M, have connected with their catab-
lishment an extensive Looking Glass Factory,
which enables them to. sell thatarticle lower
than the same articla can be bought in New-
York city. The subecribers will keep constant-
ly on hand @ Acary. stock of Cursa, Giass, Ean-
Turas Wars, and Lhogine Grasses, and on the
opening of navigation, will ba receiving, direct
from Liverpool, heavy quantitics of ware, of tho
latest atyle and. patterns, whieh mierchants, on
their way to New-York, and others? are invited
ie call La sxeniadeit No, 112, Sign of the
rge Pitcher, Detroit, 1
awe Patterson, Gardner § Mather.

~~ CROMELIEN, IERS &

OTHERS & COQ,
Foreign Wine and Liquor Establishment,
- No. 283 Pearl-Streel, New-York,

ILL open alranch of their House in this
V city, at 127 Main Street, (near tho Man-
sion House,) on the 26th inat., for the perma-
ment business of supplying (his place and the
whole Western Country with superior and gon-

uine e
Wines: and Liquors.

Thoy are deairdua to have the publick acquain-
ted, that from their long is Heats in the busi-
ness, and of their inany We: tern Customers
who have been supplied for the past 2 years, as
well ax from the. continued: patronage: they re-
ceive, they must give entire satisfaction, and
 feel confidant thatin operiing a branch here, as
“1 thoy hove, will much fieilitate Morehants in the
" despatch of their ra. which ollorwice would
 have to he sent to New-York. In doing the. a-
bove, and by appealing to the pubiick, we are
assured that this will meat the views of the many,
All Orders and Letters, rost-rasp, will
unctualiy attunded to, directed to this place or
New: Yor . :

Eefele, Apr aN ERE
A Steam Engine for Sale.
ITE aubseriber offers tor sale a reed En-
: ine of sufficient power to run three pals-
" of mill stones, two of which may bo 4 feet be-
woas, and ong of aasnraller size.

This Engine was bull uner the inspection of
the owner, Who is a practical engineer, and can
therefore warrant the rau ty be of the best iron
and sufficient pewor ter the atieve purples oF
for a saw mill, with a lath soachine and grind
atone altaebed toit. ‘The rubscriber would sell
hulf of the engine for cash, to one who would
establish a grist millin tho Hoori a gf of
Lakeport, in Laport county, Ja, whore pain
now putting up another engine for a. xaw mu Ie
or he willeell the whole engine on the moat fa-
yorahle terma, and -receiye several pairs of goad
oxen, and one or two substantial waggone, in
ment. The engine. will arrive at Fort
f firat rive of the SL Mary's river,
snare. af Col. adage? fl
¢ Wayne. of whom further particulars may
ae or ty addressing 4 line to the subscriber at
Lakeport, Laport co, ba: s

May, 18h Swh, shee 2
Ogg enh S COLIPE

EG to inturm the eitizens.of Chicago and
neighboring villages, that their stock of

Tact the beat wanuthotunee) &
variety’ acts; alao, reoeapl, nates, late

==============================================================================
PRINTED PAGE 4 — SOURCE PDF PAGE 16
==============================================================================

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 1 ---
VOICE OF THE PEOPLE,

eoting of ibe trends of the present
Aa Edninaiaiion, held in Shelbysilic
Saturday the 25th of April, 1835, War
[illegible]
, whe chosen president, aud Jens 8. TURLY
[illegible]
Phe object of the meenng was explained by
), Gregory, Esq., and fol lowed by the eninc
gentleman, with an able and eloquent speech,
chich occupied the hearty attention, of the 
necung for one hour; when on inolion the
hair appointed George Parks, Stephen Olive '
tenjamin “Walden Jonathan Howard, Peter
Warren, Samuel Davey, ticob L.. Fleming,
nd Levi Casey, Eeqre, 0 committer to drat
cxolutions expressing the sentiments of the
meeting, the committee retired snd in a few
ninntes Mr. Oliver reported the following:

Whereas, the institutions and laws of this
fepublic aad the constitution itself, expressly 
roaranteas the right and privileges to all free
itizens assembling together in. their primary
sxemiblics, Whenever Lheir liberties are in dan
enor any crisis in the government requires
he the prinmry action of the poaple, for the
urpose of consulting and adviving measures
fredrere and nieans of wn verting impending
vileeeand wheren the times are emphatically.
imes of peblic peril proclaimed revalotionnry
yy the opposition, times when all geod men
hould evand sentine!s on the wateh-tower of
berty with eves that never Wink end hearts
hut never faulter and rally with united energy
o the support ofthe constitution, of republican
neasures and the priuciples of democracy,
And whereas acriais is. at hand involving ie
ights of the people, if not the very existence
fF political liberty. io which the various the-
jous of the opposition have united ta deep
lots to bring distress and ruin on our citizens,
nd in deadly hostility to the person and meas-
ires of the Chief Magistrate ot the United
States, to-wnge a warfare of strife snd enmity
0 the action of the gavariment z thus to par-
Weze all its fanetions and energins, by array-
ing a president of a-proud mopied institution.
supported by corrupted presses and hired ora-
tora of the Senate, against. the President of
hese United States, And whereas, the ma-
jority of the United States Senate have viola-
ted the constitution by usurping power not
their own, and have arrogated to themselves
the power of impeachment of the President
contrary to the forme of jaw, and virtually
tried him when vo Chief Justice presided, no
judicial oxth taken, no accnsation, no impenchi-
ment by the House; without witnesses or ac-
cusers, without hearing the accused in person
or by counsel, the proceedings being ex parte;
and although called upon by the people they
have refused to expunge the infamous transac. 
tion from their jouraale. 

They have assumed to coniral the action of
the Execntive Department, by interfering wm
matters not tinder their juriediction ; by refue-
ing to approve the nomiuation of men to office
of high and unexeeptionable character, and of
our most. distinguished and exporienced citi-
wens ; thereby materially impairing the. whole-
some action of the government, in denying to
itn service the beat talents of the country,

They have refined to grant mppliea and op-
propriations.to complete our fortifications and

to put our frontiera in a state of defence, at
the very time when it is problematical wheth-
er our country may not at once be involved in
war—the first blow of our enemies be follow-
od up by an invasion of our territories,

_ And whereas, such measures of the opposi-
fiun are derogatory to our character nso na-
tion, und have already diehonered snd east a
etain on the excutchecn ot our fome abroad,
tending manifestly to the duwnfall and total
overthrow of our government,.and will alti-
mately result in disunion, confusion and unar-

chy ut heme, onless some wholesame check
de still continued to stay and restrain these
blighting measures in their progross. And
whereas, the administration of President Jack-
son has been decidedly popular with the peo-
ple, ani hitherto auecessful in arresting al! en-
eroachinents upon constitutional law and jiber-
ty, and and are parallfzing every effort of
aristocracy in ite withoring.aud fearful march
vdinet the citadel “of our free institutions ;
and believing, as We do, thst they can by por.
petuated, the Union preserved, and the supre-
macy Of the laws maintained, only by 9 simi-
lar course of measures being pursued by the
wuccessor to the present Cluef Magistrate us
ure now adopted and puraued by him: and
Jovming it therefore highly necessary to selec
h successor eminently qualified for that sta-
ion, capable to withstend the assaults of the
opposition, and who will succeed to the meus-
ues of the present administration, and cerry
hem into faithful operation, i

And whereas, it has has been the object of
he opposition to distract and divide the friends
of the administrator and thus to conquer, it
becomes essential, therefore to be watchful, to
be vigilant, to be united in all our energies,
ction and movements lowards our choice of
he next President, to remember that “united
we stand, divided we fall.’

And whereas also, in order to secure har-
mony'and unity in the ranks of the people, it
sas heretolore been the amge and custom of
he democratic party to"mest in Conyentien,
beseipe:

oleed, That we concur in & approve
of the National Democratic Convention, to
. bed at foe cis of Baltimore on the 20th
at Bay next, forthe purpose of nominatin
andidates to the office of President and View
President.

Resolred, That the General Administration
s conducted by Presideat Jackson, has heen
uch as to meet with our hearty and cheerful
pprobation, and that the ereat: and leading
néasures marked out by hin for future gai-
ance, will continue to elicit the applause of
he democtacy of the country, a th
vill use every honorable nk te nike
uch measures. :

: Resolved, That the course’ adopted by the

President-in-bia late Message in regard to
y the honor of the nation, has deservedly
xalled us in the estimation of Foreign nalions
ad ia in unision with the feelings of every
pposioever Patriot.

‘Resoloed, That the late series of Opposition
act of government, whether right or wrong
Tried on ‘by the majority of the United S.
enate, in strict alliance’ with the Bank, are
ighly derropatory to the Senate and the
ation, and deserve the the  unequivo-
H.diepprebation of all good and henest cit-

Resolved, That the recent attempt to as-
usinate the President of these United States

direct attack vjon ervil and political: lib-

the mires Hees fe

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 2 ---
nately lead to revolution and the subversion
goveroment,

: resolved, Tmt the recent efforts of the op-
osition to divide. ard distract the friends of
lenioctacy, require imnrediate action on the
art of the democratic party; that we should
‘active and harmonize in all our measures
_knowing that union is the Palladium of our

ty. . y

oe. toed, That'a Convention of the Peo-
Ie is the best means to unite the friends of
Jemocracy; that it is expedient that the state
f Illinois xlgyuld be represented in the Balti-
vore Convention; that we sulicit and recom-
nend James Ewans, of Morgan, county, T-
V. Smith, and James Semple, of Madison,
[illegible]
f Randolph, Wickliffe Kitchell, ol Clark,
Stephen R. Rowan, of Calhoun, General M.
, Alexander, of Eilgar, Thorns J. Vv.
Jwen, of Cook, Gen. M. Walker, of La
salle Edmund Taylor, of Sangamor, Gen.
1. W. Maxwell, of Schuyler, James Whit
ock, of Fayette, and Samuel M'Roherts, of
Yermillion, to attend said Convention as
elegates from this State.

Resolced, That we will support for the
ffices of President and Vice President, the
andidates put io nomination by the Baltimore
Jonvention. ;

"The preaaible and resolutions were unan-
mously adapte!; and on motion, it was

Ordered, That the proceedings of this
necting be sigued by the Chairman and
Secretaries, and published in the ‘Illinois
Advocate.” Acjourned.

WM. WILLIAMSON, 2 cn.
BARNETT BONE, §
JS. Tearey, 3
J. Ruoans, ; Sect'ies.
Z.int of Letters,

EMAINOING in.the Post Offien, at Juliet,
Nilinots, Let April, 1835,

Rewd. EB. Arbrose Phiip J. Wooker
Danie) Andrus Jacob Waverland
sracl Brown James Iswing
Lowe Catterntl Rardal Joiner
Srchibald Ceowl Rey, Won. Kirby
Michacl Carury David Mabappy
Samuel Dixon Barnabas Monroe
Richard B. Davia Chester Marshall
John N. English Win. Rico

Mary Enoch - — Chester Sexton
Win. Fuller Esq, John Squier

Wary Frazer Uriah Wentworth
Acletine Frazer David D. Wallace 2

Elijah Garton or G. W. Josoph Zumalt

Gra
sid A.W. BOWEN, P, BM.
LF Tw site of this Oikce, is changed to the
Village of Juliet, and the Eastern Maila, will be
received via. Chicago, twice a week.

ist of Letters,
EMAINING in the Post Office at Plain-
field UWinois, lat April, 1835. ,
Rev. J.B. Ambrose Rev, Win. Kirby
Thomas W, Brailey  ‘Phomas J. Long
Warren W. Binly Wyton Martin

Jonathan Covey Gorahom Martin
Horace Chase Joshua M. Ridgeway
T. Collins J. A. Seeby

Thomax Duncan Stephen Sanford
Eldridge G. Eames Isaac Stone

3. KR. Holden Sulius Sackett

John C, Hough Alonzo Holinan
George Hough Daniel W, ‘Thomor
James Harris Wim. W. Wattles
Issac Jessup William Wallace

L. F, ARNOLD, P.M,
Toun Maps,
 beet received and for sxto, Lithographic
OF Mapa ot the Town of Chicago, including
ic School Section, “Kinzie’s Addition,” Wa-

an-wia, Ke. handsonicly executed,

KINZIE & FORSYTH,
June 18, 1834.

They can also be fownd at the office of the
‘Chicaga Democrat.”
seman remem seit redeem ae cl
“ane in goad barrels, now unloading from
me the Schooner, Mariah Antonette, and Ala-
anta, For sale by HUBBARD & Co,
July 2, 1831.

0 VIELACH LOTS
AT AUCTION,

IN DAYS ADDITION TO OTTAWA.

[illegible]
m emption to an 89 are lot adjoining the o-
igimal plot of the town of Ottawa, atate of Ili-
018, haw proceeded to ay off the wame into con.
enient lots far building, &e. and will well at
ublic Auction, FIFTY LOTS, to be selected
pon the differont Blocks in the survey, on the
3th JUNE neat, in the town of Chicago, It.

To those who are acquainted with the delight.
Hl situation of Ottawa, it will not be necessary
O speak of ils wuperior advantages being at. the
unction of the Fox, with the Hlinnia River and
urrounded with hrdraulie power to any possible
ontingancy, In high water it in at the head of
avigauion, and with an inconsiderable expen-
iture applied to the improvement of the river it
nay and will probably bocome the head of nav.
gation at any ataye of-water, and the tormina-
wn of the contemplated Canal, authorized to
e made from the said river to Chicago. The
upda in the immediate vicinity of Ottawa, and
H the adjacent county are arable and #uncepti-
le of cultivation and are not surpassed by any
b the State for fertility.

The scenery inthe neighbuurhood ix unrivaled
he health of the place equal to any other tewn
athe atate situated upon a stream, and indeed
he friends of Ottawa elaim for it advantages on
iat score thal no other town upon the river
orseaca, founded upon the facta of the entire
bsence of timbered and overflowed bottoms or
tervals, and a brick current in the sireams with
oky and sandy hottoma, already there are nino.

put of the Town laid off by

nildings on that
ve subscriber and seyoral others are in progreaa

t crecticr:,
‘To capitalists thin sale will afford a certain
portunity of a good investment to Merchants,
echanica and business Men, an opportunity is
re presented on secare or lower terme than
ill probably ever oceur again, eligible sites
r business and residences amidet 9 population
teligent, moral, activo, enterprising and. re.
ectable. Ottawa was laid out by the Canal
ommiasioners in (ESL, in the County Seat of
a Salle County and js believed to be destined
take the téad of any part of the Mate, in flour.
g and Saw Milt end Manufactories and their
haeruent benetite the opinion is founded upon
act of the unrivailed edyantages of Otlawa
ber hydraulic power, its very advantageous
ation on account of narige!: and market

ex the chain of the 0: wan. oF Now-York

laurcounded as it is by a region intr,
th fertile and delightful and pn a wunte oe

N. Bi The facilities for build °
ed hero among which we hare Lat eros
‘goud Stone, a fine material for bricke and
ne and several Saw Millsin the nej hbourhood
mara iret Stone Coal.of an excalfent quality

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 3 ---
ornges-Forwarding and Commisslon
OBLOCAGO-ELLENOLS
Agents for the Merchants Line.

REFERENCES— ‘ ae

S.'T. Anwsrnoxe, No.9, Conties Stip, N. Yor

Roneat Huser, Esq. Albany,

Banxen & Hott, Buffulo,

Ouver Newsrnry, Detroit,

Cauvis Barras, Mouth St, Joseph.

Jawes B. Canpern., Oltara, :
Also, Wholesale and Retail Denlors it

Bry Goods Groceries and
PROVISIONS.

~ MUBBARD & CO. —
Commission & Forwwardin:

WARCHATNS,
CHICAGO—ILLINOIS.

Guavos 8, Huspanp,
Hesay G. Henpanp.

JOWN HH. KENZIE,
Forwarding & Commissior

NV ETRE. y Swplgy
SUEIRCELAN TD
ORE) ALAM
Agent for the Troy & trie Line.

REFERENCES :-—
R. Petsam, New-York,
G. P. Gaerne & Co, Troy N.Y.
Gourrvrn, fans & Sons, Rochester,
8S, Taonvsos & Co,, 2 * x
"Towsssxp & Cort, Buftalo, N.Y.
Gipixes, Ba rpwes,Prase & Co.Cleavelan
J. R. Donn & Co,, Detroit M, T.
Grireity & Co, St. Jeseph, M. T.
Sars & Baoturns, St. Lome, Mo.
Agents for Troy and Enie Lin
W. R. Prusn, & Co, Galena i.
Fansswoata & Bacsn, Green Bay, M. 1
Keeps constantly on bend, Salt, Fini
Window Sash, Nails, he, low tor Cigh, 
his Wanz Houan, oppoxite to Fort Dearbor
opr i.

Wines, Cigars, Xe,
HAMPAIGNE, of the Siilery. Brand,
Sherry of various brandsand importation

Maderia do, do,5-
Malaga; Sicily, Ma.; Port, “Harrie;” Ben
carlo; dee. fe, ,
CIGARS, of the gelebested hunauthcie,
[illegible]
Croanido Clark, Havant DARD & CO.

Watches and Jewelry. 
J, H. MULFOXD, ‘

1: ee juat retur!
ed fronv New-Yor
and Philads!phin, with +
fl extensive asrortinent of

fl Clo ks, Watches,
SS . Bb. Jewelry, #e
Hane ™ comprising 98 great a vat
ty of goods in hie ine, as has over been affere

Weat of Buffalo; consisting of

Gold and Silver Patent Lever, Lepine, En

lish and common Watehea;

Alabaster and Ebony 15 day Time Piccas—

strike houree and half hours;

Curtis’ and Dunning's 8 day time pieces;

Rich diamond, pearl, cameo, and agate Broa

Pins; do, do, Jet Finger Rings;
Pearl, jet, cameo, filagre and vine Ear Rings
 Gold cable and curb Ladies’ Wateh Chains
Cutlery nud Faney Articles,
 Mathematical Instrumenta: Pocket Pistole:
Roger's best silver steel Raizors;
Powder Flasks and Shot Pouches;

Thermometers; Measure Tapos;

Double and single barreled Fowling Pieces;

Table and desert Knives and Forks;

Back gammon. chequer and chews boards, di

and chess men; Double Mirrors ;

Snuffer and Traya; pocket bonks and wallet:

A great varioty of dirk, pocket and pen Knive
Spectacles,

Gold, Silver, Plated and Stee) Spectacles, 
suit any persons eyes,

Music,

A lot of good Music Boxes, of different sine:
Harmonicas, and many other articles too m
merous lo mention. -

Silver Ware,

A good assortment ever pointed Pencil Case

Table, tea, dogert, cream, mustard and sa

Spoons; Sugar Tongs; Butter Knives, &

Indian silver work manufactured on the alo
test notice, and aa cheap as can be bought i
the United States,

Watch Repairing.

J... M. is determined that no paina shall b
wpared in repairing all Watches entrusted to hi
eare, on the shortest yotice and in a workmen
like manner. Citsh paul for old Goldand Silea
Chuiaga, May, TEA 2

NEW Goons,
PETER COHEN,
AY, eaeed beg leave ta inform his old cus
_Soiners, and the public generally, tha
he has just reesived by brig Indiana, and offer
for vale on the most feasonable terms, a large
complete and splendid assortment of

Dry Goods, Groceries,
“CLOTHING,

well suited to this section of the country. Al
kinks of Liquors, at wholesale and retail, H
reapectfully requests the people io call and ax
aunine for themselves, at hie store next door bo
low Messra. Newberry and Dole’s store house
on south water street,
Chicago, Nor, 3, 1834.49,

PHILO CARPENTER,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist

AT THE SIGH OF THE GOLDEN MORTRR, 
South Water Strest, Chicago,
;  AS just received, and now of
‘ fore for ealo, ono of the lar
gest and beat selected asnoriments o

PRUGS awD
hae MEDICINES,
Paints, Oils, & Dye-Studs,
ver offered in the State of Illinois, comprising

may mrtinle usually called for at a Drug Store,
Also, a general and well gelected assortment o

Dry Groceries, Crockery,
and Glass-Ware, -
ogether with an aswortment of Hai rare, ond
tines and erpates als, of the beat. work-
anship.. Together witho great varicty of Mis.
dlancous Articles, comprising. : oa
3800 pnire coarse nad fine men’s BOOTS;
200 do. do, do BHOES; ©
A select assortment of School Books;
Iron and steel; saw mill and. cross cut Sawa;
Beythe and Snathe; Nails, hoes, shovels,
Spadea, sheet iron, stone and wood ware,
Brooms, bed cords and coniane
) which he is prepared to sell at the: lowest
ah prices, : oe ee

From « long experignes in the Drug line,
abeeribor can with conidenee inv the'eaile

hyn, playa a aller al

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 4 ---
[uncertain: Dense small type and uneven inking leave unresolved characters in this column.]
List of Letters. —
EMAINING in the Post Office, at C

i ago, Cook Co, Hlinois, gn the SIst
: of Mare
i A. Kirby, Hannah W
mr, Williat ‘Kent, Alexander C;
phi Jaines” Kittridge, John P.”

len, Edwerd Knoggs, James
Allert rae King, Elma A.
Adoms, Joseph Kirby,
Ambrose, Joshua E. 3 iL,
Allen, Richard B, Luce, Willinom
Andrus, Thomas Lucas, Robard
 Atkins, Jearuin Lewis, W.Y.
Lee, John H.

Bullen, Ieduthan = @ Lunger, Jacob
Ratterfield, Zimry Loveland, Robert,
 Barrows, Mery > Luens, Ann
Kiangarten, Moritz @ Lozier, Mr.
Benvet, Lyman 3 Lamb, Caleb
 Borton Wooster J. Lamb, Adam
Britain, Hiram % 2 Lathrop, Samuel 8

Bertholf, Marcus Ley, George
Blake, Levi Loring, Win.
Bradstreet, Albert G. 4 M.
Brown, Lemuel Moore, John,
Browr, Clorrisa AVEwen, Wm. B.
Bush, Riley Mason, Matthias

Brown, Harriet BE. Martin, Patrick
Bartlett, Charles 1, 38° Milow, John
Brown, Adam Miller, Jesse
Handle, William Mileted, John
Beach William 1. M'Fadin, James
Brown, Joseph N.. Morley, Jamer 1
Bonréinan, W. E, Muchell, Wenry.

Bailey, Bennet Maynerd, Elias
Bench, Reuben ~ Michiriski, Mr.
Beanbien, Mo B. Muore, Nélson
 Brookes, Saaitel Moore, James
Barry, John 8. Musgrave, Jehn
Bone, George B. Murry, Manzo
Barton, Rutus Morrison, T. M.
 Randle, Ann Mack, Stephen
Bennett, Amos Meize, David
 Bennett, iran 8, Miner, Amanda
 Berger, F.C. Mavkie, James

 Brown, Schuyler Merrill, Winthrop
‘ Miller, Joho

Cartin, L. G, Mitler, Marzhall

“ Charch, Benjamin M’Lean, Jobn V,
Childe, Samh Merals, Washingto
Carpenter, Gilbert M’Kean, Joseph,

1 Covalt, Ense Malone, Patrick
Crandal, Alva ~ Minord, Ira

. Coviey, Simon Meeker, Joseph
Cook, I jarres Matthews, James C
Compart & Coquillard, N,
Chace A. R, Nelson, Johu M.

Champlan, John 3 Newton, Daniel
 Chauncoy, Oronge ‘Natta, John V.
Cloment, Sarah

j Conant, Eben Osborn, Wim.

1 Cooley, Edward W.2 Outhet, Daniel

 Center, Willard 3 + Ns

 Cheenut, Jutus Paddock, Jane
Collins, Jeredat Palmer, N. H.
Chadwick, Joseph Poge, Frederick W.
Carpenter, Mr, Parker, Alonson

 Carter, James Parker, Curtis

Craig, Jeremiah «Paine, Seth

Cri], David Preston, Eather

+ Clark, John A, Parmlee, George E

Chancie, Joseph Poller, Ludwell

Catler, Morris Paige B. R.

Coldwell, Archibald) Pank, Wm>W5

Chevalier, Louis P. Parcel, Aston

 Chase, Enoch Poke, Bdmund

Clark, Baldwin T, Phelps, James HH.
De. Pearsons, Hiram

Dunham, fa.

Dean, Janes J, Roberson, Daniel
Doane, Seth B, Riddle, Mr.
Davis, John Rowley, Herman A
Dudley, John Jr. * Ritchey, James
1, Aan Bitchard, Charles J,

Dustin, ‘Thomas Rathburn, Amovs

 Dunn, Dangerfield Rice, Samuel
Downer, Pierce Risley, Horace
Downer, Stephen Reeder, Henry

E. Reed, Themas
Estes, James 8 Richards, Charles J
Evans, Sciota 2 Russel, John
Early. Henry A. Rogere, Faward A.
Ewin, J.P. Renwick, Theopilus
Eager, Hiram Romer, Car!
Everitt, J,:8,

: F. Schemmerhorn, M.1
Folliott, Jonathan ~ Skiniver, E. F.
Forbes, Stephan Sricher, John
Foster, Caleb Smith, George
Faber, Porter Stephens, & co.
Fowler, James We. Squire, George
Fowler, Albert Senture, Antoine
Ford, Ebeneaer Stevens, Lavant
Freeman, Ford Spring, Thomas 0.

ie Scsofier, Valjrj

Guoding, Wm, 2 Stiles, Davi
Galushia, Ruerell L. Stevens, E,
Galusha, Jacob A, Shelden, Oliveann
Goodrich, Grant — 2 Steward, Joseph
Goodell, Nancey Ann Sloan, Douglass
Goddard, Mr, Starne, Shepard
Godfrey, T, Shoup, Michael
Gilbert, Jonathan Schnuder, P.
Grant, Oranto 2 Ssmmons, Ricard
Gleazen, Joseph Stevens, Isaac
Galusha, Jacob Smith, Jeremiah
Goodrich ¥ Abell, — Sinith, Orange
Gardoer, John B, Smith, Henry
Garton, Elijah Shintafle, James
Gibby, James H, Simons, E,
Goddard, Wo. H. Steele, Richard
iooding Jnsper A, .
Gifford, Hezekiah Toret, James
Gunn, Medad HL. Taylor, Justin
Garland, J. J. Todd, Hugh S.

OL Thomne, John
Hutchine, Nathan Titcomb, Timothy B
Holder, Jesse Tilman, Mr, ~
How, Phineas 4 Tobdell, Joseph
Hall, Jeremiah 8, Titterington, Charles

Hill, Isaac L, Thompsond, John
all, Cyntina  Tacker, Alexr. H, or
Holmes, Cyrenius Taylor, Deodat
Howard, Elbert Tuttle; James B,
Hugunin, Leonard C, - y,
flonse, Chester Vanderbogurt, H.

Hanks, Jumes C, Vanfleet, John
Hickok, Nelron Vardon, George
How & Whittier, Vasseur, Noel

i eee, Jesse yeu Angeline
larris, James f

Marriv, David Mh Toe F
Hont, William Wood,

Wm,
Holcomb, Samuel B, Woode, John II,
Harrison, Wooster. Westover, Roy K,
Holliday, Win, S Whitney, Joshua

Hues i: qH, ie. othan 4
u 7 atkins, He!
Handy, H. 8, Warren, Hiram
Hubbard, Moses Wilkinson, Willim
Hallock, Ian ay ane

Fs worth, Fit
Johnson ke Stephens, Wright, Daniel?
Jolimaan, Day: Wanzer, Ruben ©
Jackson, Sheldon ht, Caroline

ni H
ee he Whitcomb Aaron
Knowles, George A; Waring Beetwon

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 5 ---
by the President of the United Sta
“ we pursuance ov Jaw,.J, Aspnew Jackso,

: I sient of the United States of Americ
ay. hereby declare and make known that a
Sale Will be held at Chicago, the seat «
Land Officg for the Narth eastern district
;[linois, commencing on Monday, the 16th
June nest, for the disporal of the Public
within the limita of the undermentioned
ships and fractional jewactiine, situated o
waters of the Iinois, Fox, Lapiaine, anc
million rivers, along the rout of the Cun:
thorized by the act of congress approved ¢
2d of March, 1827, entitled “An act to gy
quantity of Land to the State of Illinois, 
purpose of aiding in opening a Canal to er
the waters of the Hlinois ‘river, with th
Lake Michigan,” and excluding the alt
sections reserved to the State of Hlinois 
provisions of said act, to wit:

North of the base line and East of 3d pri
meridian:

Townzhip 31, ‘of range 4.

Toratlp OY, of range 4, except sectis
and 4,

"Township 38, of range 4, except section
5,7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 2
31, 33 and 35.

Township 34, of rango 4, exeopt section
19, 21, 23, 25, 97, 20, 31, 33, 35,

Township 3%, of range 4,

That part of Township 36, lying South
old Jndinn boundary, of range 4.

‘Township 31, of range 6.

Township 32, of range 5, execpt sectic
3,5 7,9, 11, 13, and 1S,

Township 33, of range 5, except reetic
35,7. 9, UL, 13,15, 17,19, 21; 23, 25, 2
34, 33, and 35,

Township 34, of range 5, except sectior
31, 33, and 35.

That part of Township 35, lying West.
river, and South of the old Indian bound:

mines 5,
‘ownship 31, of range 6.

Township 32, of range G, except secti
5, and 7,

Township 33, of range 6, except anctic
3,5, 7,9, 1, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 28, 25, §
31, 38, and 35.

Township 34, of range 6, except sectio
25,97, 29, BL 33, and 5.

‘Thet part of Township 35, lying South
old -ndian boundary, of range 6,

Township 31, of range 7.

Township 32, of rang: 7.

Township 33 of range 7, except secti
a 5,7, 9, 18, 12,15, 17, 19, 21, 24, 27, 2

Townehip 34, of range 7, except seetion
13, 15,17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27. 29, 31, 3
3.

That part of Township 35, of range 7,
South of the old Indian ponniary line.
sd Township 31, of range 8,

Township 32, of range &.

Township 33, of range 4, except sectio
3,5.7,9, 11, 15, and 17,

Township 34, of range 8, except seeti
3,5, 7,9, 11. 13, 15, 17, 10, 21, BB, 2, 2
SE, 33. ana 3h,

That part of Township 35, lying Sout
East o! the old Indian boundary, of range
cept section 35.

Phat part of township 36, lying Sout!
East of the old Indian boundary, of range

‘Township 31, of range 9.

That part of Township 22, lying Ne”
Indian boundary and West of Kanka:.
of range 9, ;

Township 39. of range 9, except ecctio
3,5, 7,9, 12,15, and 17.

Township 34, of range 9. except sectio
8,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15,17, 19, 21, 83, 95, 2
4 3h. 33, 85.

Township 35, of range 9, except sectio
3,6, 7, 910, 1B, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27
31, 38, and 35.

That part of Township 36, lying South
old Indian boundary line, of Tange 9, ¢
sections 25, and 35.

That part of Township 37, lying South:
old Indinn boundary jine. of range 0.

That pari of Townships 32, and 33,
North and West of tho Indian boundary li
rango a a 2 a

ownahip 3M, of ran
5, 7.9, 17! 9, and 3 ‘hel P

Township 35, of range 10, except sectio
3, 6,7, 9. 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 29, 23, 25, 2
31, 33, 11 and 35,

Township 36, of range 10, except sectio
3,5,.7.9, 11,13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27
31, 33, and 35.

Township 37, of range 10, except snctis:
14, 13, 15, 29, 23, 25, 87, 2031, 33, and 35
tho fractional parte of soctions 9,17, and 1!
inp Bouth of the old Indian boundary line,

hat part of fractional townsaip 34,
sath of the old Indian boundary line, of 1

That part df Townships 33 and 34,

northwest of the Indian boundary line, oft

Township 35, of range 11, except section
9,17, and Io. * F
Township 36, of range 11, except aectio
3, 5,7, 9, 1, 17, 19, 20, 29, and 31,
Township 37, of range 11, execpt arctin
3,5, 7.9, 11, 13, 15, 17,19, 20, 23, 25, 27
31, 33, and 35,
That part of township 35, lying South «
old Indian boundary line, of" range 1], ¢:
sections 13, 23, 26, 27, 29, 91, 33, and 35.
That part of tawnship 39, lying South o
old Indian boundary line, of range 1.
Township 36, of range 12.
Township 37, of range 12, except section
3, 5, 7,0, 1, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 27, 29,
Ba

Township 34, of range 12, except section
3, 6, 7,9, 11, 03, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27
31, 33, and 35,

That. part of Township 39, lying Suuth o
old Indian boundary line, of range 12, oxcet
Uons 25, 27, 33, and 35,

That part of Township 40, lying South o
old Iniian boundary line. of range 12,
 That part of townships 35 and 36, 

Northwest of the Jndian boundary line, ofr:

Tompehlp 37, of range 13, except section:

Township 38, of range 13, excapt ecction
3, 6,7, 9, 11, 13,15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27,
SI, 33, and 3,

Fovnabipe 39, of range 13, exeopt sectior
9, Hy 13, 15, 17; 19, 2, 23, 25, 27, 29, Bl,
“tbe T North

‘at part of Township 36, lying. Northy
of the Indian boundary tines Olan 4.
That part of township 37, lying Northwe
the Indian bana line, of Tange 44, ex
sections 13, 14, and 23,

Fractional Township ‘38, range 14, except
tions 3, 5,7,9, 1, 1%, and 19.

_ Fractional township 29, range 14, except
: aay 5, 7,-9,.15,.17, 19, 21,27, 2031,
and 35.

Fractional Township 40, range 14, except
fiona 19, 21, 20, 31, and 28,
That part of fractional Township 41, of ra
14, lying Sout -and Fast of the old Indian bo
agy line,
ractional Townsbipa 37 and 38, of range
pear meres by law ec the re
fn TF other purposes will be exclu
Aus to be kept:
on longer, ept-open for two weeks 1
Given under wy hand, at the Cily of Wa
ington, the-twelith day of Febuary, Av
Domini one Shousand eight hundred s

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 16, COLUMN 6 ---
[uncertain: Outer-edge curvature and small advertising type leave unresolved characters in this column.]
NOTICE TO PRED MPT;
Persons chimp ie igh 0) Chay

any of the aforesaid lata shed Petting

j¢  Lhe same to the ratafction gf rie inp?

Receiver, prior to Rezits
Gestnan Lasp Ome, ™

NEW GOOHes
Whotesat Ds,
JOHN he tant

<2 KINY,
He's just received and Nat,

thevasy ent of hiy W fog 7:
Font Deannons,) H an W te liege fm

GOODS, consisting in Pat e etre y
Fancy and Staple Dry Gg
* wDibws ies
Groceries, of all sorts.

Crockery, Tinear é
[illegible]
1 ler articles, too ern riety
st, at see will rat te tention ‘a
1,3, [ters Those desirin, bia
“h9) will find it to their aieentage et Fite
his gueds and prices. Aug, 31S bit
Seon Bn eh
Fire Insurance,
HIE -subseribers Iiaving heen
fthe Agents for the Howard Pip ete
Company of the city of New-Vork I
cago and the vicinity, will Masui ty fy
8 1,  gainst Joss by Fire, dn reasonable i fertyy
s

1G,

July pe pero tthe,
ad  EMR,
2Y, and Cheap G ae
99, HE subscriber ha ast reeeited f Ss
a York, the faltoxtbby anvong hes Ne
Pog  it dis ting, which he offers for sie t Attire
gt and Retail, vernv sow, © at Mata
ry

Superfine ac’
Superting back,
. nine eres sna btn
3 Marino cloths aria atin
3, cloths, and CIrcassians. of tates
i malt rand colors; me
w 1, eat aud lark Ginghams and ealicong:
29; 29 d Fiousces and green ay
if Gauze, Garniture, and

: 93, Fronch Mustin: silk int af Tie;
GA and 4 Damask; ¢: ce
fthe Brown Hotty i A tte Dip

Gents, and Ladies Glow
Wodtien and Canton Plann
Renily nade CLOTHING,
is 1, Meae Lvov si elvittinys aged @
cand Waddin and Battine; eee
eer Paper and Bordoring:
min I bales cotton Varn: 8 doz. tu
and  284 other DRY GOODS, both fern

Wardware,

CONSISTING IN pany or

Beneh, inoulding & sash Planes 2ndPrepig
Socket, finuiers, sortice an
Sock 8, St Yond ta :
s1 Knob and kieck Lacks: tant sega:

" Cupboard Turis and Door Raper
vel Curtains Pins; Brass and giaes Ka
ay Table, pocket, butelor and ghee Kew,

nil Heiaay
Wis, varlous kind,

reaps,

ying

Norfolk Latelies: Butte and Serer:
: Kialion Violin Strings: "
cand ILS oe
18%" Nails, Rweiles Iron, nail rads, eradle andy
and Seythee, Pitehforks, Tin Ware, roona, eek

la Rope, oid amt young iyson Teas, beves ina
and lump Sugare, imotsesen, cof, ci
while and brown bar soup, indign, pattz! wf
eommon canules, raising, Crockere and
Ware, &e, JOHN WRIGHT,

AVCORMICK & MOOY, 
gy)  Mamufacturers and Wholesale Dealer is

Fert gs

by. No, 109 Jefiiraon Avenue, Detroit
TLE subseribers keep constantly fr alee
the extensive assortment of HATS, ste
cept they can with confidence recmaey,
rnd whieh will be disposed of &
Cash of approved paper, on a5
aoe sonable terns ne can be purchee v
ying  any regular House in the City of New Yeh-
», ot] Merchants of Chicago snd vicinity, and ciaes
[illegible]
: 8, ] Stock, wheuthes visit Detroit, and arse
their orders will be gratefully received el

s 1,  promptly, cavcuted,

 MELELARR BAW
1 kept on hand or made to order, which wa®
gg!  comparison in quality of material, peawa!
* finish, Ke. with any manatactured iy tas
of New-York.
jj] Farand Cloth CAPS, constantly on hae
i M'CORMICK & S00%.
S Detroit, Alarch V5, VA is
"El Carriage & Sleigh Makin:
HE subseribers rerpoetfally inform thee?
ing  JB izens of Chieazo nnd its vicinity,
they have erected a large and commadiogs Be
ding, fora whop, an Handalph steel, a"
prepared to exeenie nll orders in the Caray
and Sleigh meking businces, on the matte
sonable tee nea wants
PREPAIBING done on abort note.
iad BRIGGS & HUMPHAEF.
August 13, DSH. pee

ms :
Gio SPRING:
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR ATLA
And Soliciter ia Chancery:
FEICE. first dest north from the Tea
House, on deacborn-atreet.
Chicaira, Dee. 3, 1S.

Is published every We
Chicago, Cock co. BE
over Messrs Jones & King Hans

TEAMS. 
The Chicago Denoerat ix printed co § lay!

ize i vet, a ind to 7
size imperial sheet, and alfors Fone
Toe auleceibers who mare their popes

the

are Slats

the
ad

the

ng!) ie

livered by the carrier &> aie
ee Mail waliscribers, and thoxe whe recest? ie’
5,  papers at the office, B25). al

“ity cents in addition will be AD NCE:
eases where payment is not ra re

., i y instance
al Papers will not in any instar ey
Hie where we have no cuthoren
1,  less the subscription is accompanil
, o
eg iy _ puberty
» wr y person procuring we ve enti

over, and forwarding the mosey: ‘

supy gratis.

led to a seventh copy prauie.  y pter,
[illegible]
pt] Bl for the first, and 2 cunts Or leo

quent insertion. A liberal igen
e-  to those who advertise by t hey sie

POD PWRUTADN
et Attached bo this affice i¥ an ot
31JOB TYPE, which are infer i
ra State, Books, harper em pene  deat

Cards, Ke, exccnted WHITE

"1 Joseph Clot eng. Ottawa.
5. Charles Dunn, P- a Coen’
of Sone tioy, Bat Sprin, fivlds
i Cal, James W. Crate, “ekiDs
F fone
dp oA F gal Bioorsint *eanipi:

Thomas Harteell ot ee

Giles G Dane P a alle Cook ¢@
wl og. F, Arnold, p- fee erie
of Capt, Jou Naper, POOP jatinh

aL A, W: Bowes, Pe
Col, Thomes FISHER ES’
A. Fowlers 8) oo verk

Pen. Jones etd!
UG Hogtest:
