CHICAGO DEMOCRAT
“Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.” — Franklin.
Published by J. Calhoun
Chicago, Illinois — Tuesday, December 10, 1833
Volume I, Number 3
Source: Nov1833-Dec1833.pdf, PDF pages 9–12

TRANSCRIPTION NOTE
Reading order follows each page from the leftmost column to the rightmost column. Original line-end hyphenation is retained. Bracketed text is genuinely unresolved in the scan; unbracketed text has been reconciled across enlarged, column-isolated and whole-page recognition passes but should still be checked against the image before scholarly quotation.


===== SOURCE PDF PAGE 9 / ISSUE PAGE 1 =====

--- Column 1 ---

THE DEMOCRAT,
Is published every Tuesday, in the village of Chicago, Cook co. Ill., in the building on the corner of South Water and Clark-streets.

TERMS.
I. The Chicago Democrat is printed on an imperial sheet, and afforded to subscribers at TWO DOLLARS AND FIFTY CENTS, payable in ADVANCE.
II. Any person procuring six subscribers or more, and forwarding the amount of the subscriptions for the same, will be entitled to a copy gratis.
III. ADVERTISEMENTS.—For 17 lines or under, $1 for the first, and 25 cents for every subsequent insertion. A liberal discount will be made to those who advertise by the year.

JOB PRINTING.
Attached to this office is an assortment of JOB TYPE, which are inferior to none in this State. Books, Pamphlets, Blanks, Handbills, Cards, &c. executed with neatness and despatch.

The following gentlemen will confer a favor on us, by acting as Agents for the Democrat, in procuring subscribers and forwarding the respective amounts to us.
George Cloud, P. M. America.
Elijah Willard, P. M. Jonesboro'.
William Limerick, esq. Brownville.
William C. Murphy, esq. Pinckneyville.
Miles Hotchkiss, esq. Kaskaskia.
Daniel Converse, P. M. Waterloo.
John Crain, esq. Covington.
Harry Wilton, esq. Carlyle.
Simon M. Hubbard, P. M. Frankfort.
S. J. Chapman, P. M. Vienna.
Charles Dunn, P. M. Golconda.
James Caldwell, esq. Equality.
Thomas F. Vaught, esq. Shawneetown.
Adam W. Snyder, esq. Belleville.
David Prickett, esq. Madison.
Col. — Fry, Carrollton.
Col. James Evans, Jacksonville.
Knapp and Pogue, esqrs. Bardstown.
Col. E. D. Taylor, Springfield.
Col. — Crain, Pekin.
Thomas Hartsell, esq. Hennepin.
Doct. Wm. H. Eiser, Bloomington.
Joseph Cloud, esq. Ottawa.
Job Ratcliff, esq. Carmi.
Henry J. Mills, esq. Edwards co.
Hon. Wm. B. Archer, Darwin.
Jas. M. M'Lean, esq. Lawrenceville.
Wickliff Kitchell, esq. Palestine.
Col. Shelleday, esq. Paris.
Rigden B. Slocumb, esq. Wayne county.
John Davenport, esq. Hamilton co.
Hon. Wm. Marshal, Clay co.
William M'Connell, P. M. Vandalia.
Joseph Oliver, esq. Shelbyville.
Samuel M'Roberts, esq. Danville.
Hiram C. Bennett, esq. Hillsboro'.
Hosea T. Camp, esq. Greenville.
Maj. William Campbell, Galena.
Wesley Williams, esq. Hancock co.
Capt. Samuel Alexander, Quincy.
Capt. Hart Fellows, Rushville.
Col. Leonard Ross, Atlas.
John Shaw, esq. Gilead.
Henry B. Stillman, esq. Peoria.
Francis Foot, esq. Lewiston.
Ossian M. Ross, esq. Havana.

Missouri.
Doct. Edmond H. M'Cabe, St. Louis.
John R. Carter, esq. Clarksville.

Indiana.
— Wilmoth, P. M. Baltimore.
Charles Ives, esq. Laporte.

Michigan Territory.
C. K. Greene, esq. Niles.
Wm. H. Brown, esq. White Pigeon.
Judge — Wilkins, Tecumseh.
J. Smith, esq. Ypsilanti.
Col. Thomas Fitzgerald, St. Josephs.

New-York.
Wm. Jones, esq. Buffalo.
L. G. Hoyt, esq. Watertown.

Saddle & Harness Making.

GOSS & COBB.
WOULD respectfully inform the inhabit-

ants of Chicago and the neighboring set-

tements, that they have o

pened a shop in this village

on the corner of Lake and

Canal-streets, where they

have on hand and will man-

ufacture to order,

Ladies' and Gentlemen's

SADDLES,

Brass, Silver and Common Mounted

Bridles; Martingales, &c. &c.

Hard leather and common TRUNKS.

Portmanteus, Valices and Travelling Bags;

Coaches, Chaises and Waggons Trimmed in
style. Repairing immediately attended to when
brought to their shop.

N. B. By strict attention to business, they
hope for a share of patronage.

Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
Just Opened and for Sale,
At the New Store on the corner of South
Water and Clark-streets, Chicago, Ill.,
a new and splendid assortment of Fancy and Sta-
ple
DRY GOODS,
Crockery & Glass Ware,
HARDWARE and CUTLERY,
Men's and Boys' Fur and Cloth CAPS,
Cotton Batting, Yarn and Wicking,
Sheeting and Shirting, Blankets, &c. &c.
all of which will be sold at the lowest prices for
Cash or Country Produce.
W. KIMBALL.
Chicago, Nov. 1833.
Butchering.
THE subscriber intends Butchering from four
to five hundred HOGS this present
week, all of which have been well fatted on
Corn. He wishes to inform his old customers,
and the people generally, that he intends selling
cheap for Cash, at wholesale, at his Butcher
Shop two miles from Chicago, and at wholesale
and retail at his market, on the market square
in Chicago.
He further wishes to inform the public, that
he keeps constantly on hand and for sale, at his
Farm two miles from Chicago, Work Oxen and
Beef Cattle, Beef both fresh and salt, at whole-
sale and retail, at his market in Chicago.
Dec. 3, 1833.                    A. CLYBOURN.

--- Column 2 ---

PHILO CARPENTER,

CHICAGO-ILL.

TIal keep constantly on

hand, a general assort-
ment of

DRUGS AND

MEDICINE
Oils, Paints, Dye-Stulls,
de. dc. -ALSO-
Dry Groceries, Glass, Nails, de.
1
Nor. 22, 1833.
Wholesale and Retail.

STORE BETIZES CLARK ASD DEARBORN-STREETS.

P. PRUYNE & CO.
SOULD respectfully inform their friends

and public that they have just recered
large addition to their former Stock, which
nakes it one of the most extensite in Chicago,
consisting of
Groceries, Hardware,

Crocker!, Glesserare,

A LARGE ASSORTMEST OF

DRUGS & MEDICINES,

BOOTS AND SHOES,

IRON AND STEEL, INDOI GLASS, fr.

Also, a large assortment of

TONE WARE,
Consisting of Covered Jars, from 1 quart to
3 gallons; Potsfrom 1 quart to 4 galls.
Jugs from 1 pt. to 4 galls.; Pitch-

ers from 1 pt. to 3 galls.; 1,

2, 3 and 4 gall. Churns;
and Stone Mill: Pans (a new and excellent

article,) Pails, Brooms, &c. Sic.
all of which they offer for sale on the most ac-
commodating terms.
03 Cash paid for all kinds of Country Produce.
Chicago, Dec. 3, 1933.

NOTICE.
Ll. persons having unsettled accounts with

the subscribers, will please call and las
tout, before the first day of Felirary next, oth
erwise their notes or accounts will be leit with
the proper officer for collection.

BREWSTER, HOGAN & CO.
Die. 3, 1o5%

OTERO A

ENGLISH & CLASSICAL, ACADEMY.

CORNER OF WATER AND FRANKIIN-STS.
1S institution is designe l for the instruc

tion of youth of both sexes, in all th
branches of scienco necessary to gualify then
for the business of active life. It liza a root
well adapted for the purpose, and is intended fo
the reception of scholars from their earliest year
of pupilage, oa through their more advance
course of Academical study. From the expe
rience which the Instructer has had in teaching
for several years past, in Boston and its vicin
ty, and from the opportunities he has receive
for qualifying himself for the duties of his office
he flatters himself that he shall be able to furnis
the inhabitants of the rapidly rising town
Chicago, with as good a school, at its co
mencement, af is wually found in the we
tern country.

TERMS-PER/QUARTKR.

PRIMARY DEPARTMENT.
The alphabet, spelling, reading, writing
on black board, speaking and arithme-
$3 0
tical tabies,
These with writing on paper, togetier
with the elements of arithmetic, geog-
raphy and grammar,

HIGH ENGLISH DEPARTMENT.
Reading, writing, declamation, composi-
Lion, outlines of Scripture Geography,
ancient and modern Historr C Charts,
Elements of Geometry, Algehra, Book-
keeping, use of Globes, Blank Maps,
the Drawing of Maps,
Higher branches of Mathematics, Astron-
oms, natural moral and intellectual

Philosophy, Mineralogy, Geology, Bat-
any, Chemistry, Bbetoric and Logic,

CLASSICAL DEPARTMENT.
Latin and Greek Languages, together with
8
the English course,
5
French Language, extra,

NOTES.
1. These terms include the use of Maj
Charts, Gazetteere, and as soon as can be p
cured, a philosophical, chemical and astronomi
cal apparatus.
2. A slight charge will be made, for ro
rent and fuel, daring the season that regeires
3. There will be a public examination of 1
School at the close of every successive ter
when all will be invited to attend. Public
-hibition, with declamation, at the close of e
ry fall quarter.
4. Parents and Guardians who are seeking
a school for their children, and those commit
to their charge, and all those interested in
character and success of the Institution, are r
pectfully invited to visit it, whenever it may*
their converience-

G. T. SPROAT. Preceptor
Last of Books introduce into the Clueago Acader

PRIMARY DEPARTMENT.
mar, (simplitied,) Pierpout's National Rea
and Spelling Book.

HIGH ENGLIN DEPARTMENT.
American First Class Book, Porter's An:
si, Worcester's Scripture Geography, Worr
ter's Elements of History, and Charts, Go
rief's History of the United States, Easersc
Questions, Worcester's Ancient Atlas, B
nett's Book-kceping, Colburn's Algebra, Fli
Surveying, Wilkin' Astronomy. Blake's Nº
ral Philosophy, Chemistry and Botany, Pale
Moral Philosophy and Natural Theology, Blal
Politieal Economy, Blaisdales Intellectual 1
osoply, Mrs. Lincoln's Botany, Blairs Rb
are rick, (Green' a Edition,) Hedges Logick.

hat CLAMICAL. DEPARTMENT.
[uncertain: вія Adams' Latin Grammar, (Gould's editi]
Goodrich's Greek Grammar, Goodrich's 1
ole- Rons, Viri Rome Virgil, (Stoaghton edt
Cicero, Salust, Caser, (Boston edition,)
four Gospela, (Cambridge fress,) Jacobs V
Iw? Roader.,

--- Column 3 ---

The following proceedings of a meeting, held
in Clinton County, are from the Illinois Advo-
cate Extra, and are upon a subject vitally con-
nected with the interests of the people of this
State. ‘The subject of the apportionment of the
public lands among the different States, call a-
loud for the united exertions of the people of
the “West,” to place before the next Congress
the evils which would result from a distribution
of the proceeds of the sale of these lands, in the
bill referred to, in the proceedings which we pub-
lish oclow. The question invelyed in the bill,
is one that must be examined to be understood.
The practical effects which the operation of it
would produce upon the prosperity of the West,
are the points to which the attention of the peo-
ple should be directed, and we are sure that all
who will examine into those effects, will coin-
cide with the views expressed at the meeting of
our fellow-citizens of Clinton county. We
would urge upon the people of our own county
an early attention to this subject, for they are
as deeply interested as in any other portion of
the State. We would recommend an early call
for a public meeting, that the whole voice of the
people may be heard. Vigorous and concerted
efforts are necessary to impress the important
interests of the “land question,” in relation to
the States in which the lands lie, upon the next
Congress.

At a meeting of the citizens of Clinton
county, and other gentlemen from different
parts of the State, during the session of the
Circuit Court at Carlyle, on the 26th Sep-
tember, 1833—

Col. JOHN S. CARRIGAN was called to the Chair, and JAMES SEMPLE appointed Secretary.

The objects of the meeting being briefly explained, on motion, the Chairman appointed the following gentlemen a committee, to report resolutions for the consideration of the meeting, expressive of their views of the land system, and particularly in regard to the provisions of the bill that passed Congress during the last session, viz: Hon. Charles Slade, Col. Robt. Crockett, Samuel M’Roberts, John Omelvany, James Semple, A. W. Snyder, Col. E. C. Cerry, Harry Wilton, John Scott, J. A. Wakefield, J. M. O’Har-
nett, Jos. Heny, D. G. Howard, J. M. Hals-
tead, Thomas Ray, Seth T. Sawyer, Wm. Hindall, John Wilcox, Godfrey Ammons, Benjamin Bond, and E. Bail.

After which Mr. Semple, from the committee, reported the following resolutions:

Resolved, That the questions connected with the public lands—the high price at which all lands, good and bad, are held by the general government—and more especially the operation of the existing land system, in draining capital from the new States containing unsold land, are subjects of deep and abiding interest with the good people of the State; that, in the opinion of this meeting, it is right and proper that the said subjects should be brought before the public, with a view to obtain a fair and frank expression of public sentiment.

Resolved, As the opinion of this meeting, that the bill which passed the last Congress and was not returned by the President, would, if passed into a law, produce great and serious injury in the States containing the public lands, of which Illinois is one: that the obvious tendency of said bill would be to keep up the price of all land, good and bad; to drain the west of capital for the benefit of populous States; to retard emigration to, and the improvement of, the new States.

Resolved, As-the opinion of this mee
ing, that the principle upon which the pr
ceeds of the public lands are proposed, in ea
bill, to be distributed among the States,
wit: according to “federal representati

mulation,” is a violation of the Constituti
of the United Statea, and the deed of cessio
and would operate peculiarly unjust towar
the people of the State containing most,
not all, of the unappropriated lands.

Resolved, Aw the vpinion of this mee
[uncertain: rm, | ing, that the principles of the said bill, for]

[uncertain: we. |¥iding out revenue among the States by.Co]

gress, is'@ violation of the Constitution
the United States, and would, in its eo
sequences, subject the States to a humiliati
dependence upon the general government
the means to construct public unprovemen
Resolved, ‘That ourtellow-citizens int
States contaifiing the unsold lands, ber
ectfully requested to unite with: us ‘in ¢
deavoring to obtain an expression of the pi
ple upon the principles of said bill; and ge
erally in relation to the existing land syste:
and to use all proper and constitutional mea
through their members in Congress, and o'
crwise, to prevent said bill, or any bill
taining like principles, ‘fiom becoming a la
Resolecd, As the-opinion of this me
ing, that 90 soon ae the public debt is ¢
charged, the principles of justice and ge
faith require. that the public lands (wh
were originally ceded and peed for:
payment of said debt) shoul 1
garded ag a source of revenue to the Unil

States.
Resolved, As the opinion of this. me
[uncertain: ‘on,) |ing, that after the payment of the public d]
[uncertain: Les- | aforesaid, the 8 disposition and sett]
[uncertain: tion) | ment of the public lands, within the limits]
the the States, should be re tded as the sett
policy of the countrys ¢ justice requ

for
tted
the
rhs
suit

is

--- Column 4 ---

[uncertain: omemaranaacsisueaneeasassnnsessseiasmren seein esr eri awn 3a en qumamanamemmesilsieiibiel aii AAS]
that the price should be reduced, donations
and pre-emptions extended for the encour-
agement and protection of actual settlers,
and that a final relinquishment of the lands
be made to the States in which they lie.
The meeting was addressed in support of
the resolution, by Sam'l. M'Roberts, Adam
W. Snyder, John A. Wakefield, and Ben-
jamin Bond, Esqs.
The resolutions were unanimously adopted.
On motion. g
Resolved, That the proceedings he sign-
ed by the Chairman and Secretary, and be
published.
On motion, the meeting adjourned.
JOHN S. CARRIGAN, Chm.
James Semple, Sec.

ache tin

‘The undersigned Committce apponted at
f}a meeting of the citizens of Harrisburg, Pa.,
to report an address and draft a petition to
Congress on the subject of a Steamboat Nav-
igation from the Atlantic t0 the lakes: sub-

ADDRESS,

to Tr Cimizéss or tHe Usitep States.

Acting under the instructions of a _meet-
ing of the citizens of Harnsburgh, at which the
undersigned were deputed for the purpose, we
Hrespecttuly ask y our attention to a few re-
inarks, upon a work of great national impor-
tance. ‘Tho construction of a ploop and
it steamboat navigation from the Ocean to the
MM Lakes by the way of the Susquebanna. We
have reached an important craif-in our Na-
tional History. ‘Fhe United States are free
from debt ; an immense and increasing reve-
nue is at our disposal. It 1s useless to eny,
qj that this revenue will be lessened by reduc-
tions in the ‘Tarif; experience has shewn
that reduetions in rates of duties on inports
lead to such increased importations, as go to
swell the receipt at the Treasury to still great~
0} or amounts, fn such a condition of national
[uncertain: 1¢ | srosperity ag we now find ourselves, whiat di-]
2] rection does common sense eay shall be given
to our surplus funds? What course does
public opinion point out? Ttis plain and un-
erring. [that been evincedi@pon every occa
a where the voice of the peoplo has been
a heard, It has by Legislative retion, became
part of the law of the land, ‘Tb the construc-
tion of works of Internal Improvement. If the
bonds cemented by, the blood of our fathers,
[uncertain: s-| have become relaxed by the effects of section-]
al prosperity or sectional adyersity—the true
policy of every lover of bia country will be to
aid in every measure which tends to equalize
the advantages which lead to the former, and
neutralize the disadvantages which grow out
of the latter. ‘The only way to do this etfee-
ed} tually-ia to bring remote sections together-—
to give an impulse to the great arteries of our
politcal system, by which the general health
may be preserved and maintained. The chain
of immense inland seas, upon our northern
frontier, which undoubted)y will become at no
very distant day, the nucleus of a population
“even gnperior in numbers to the fairest por-
of] tion of modern Europe, having unfortunately
tebe outhetcetthiewonm been bere Rect aprons
b-ffiret claim the attention of the nation. "The
immense importance of a sloop and steamboat
convection with the Atlantic, ia seen ota
glance, By the vilent but rapid steps of a 1
yal power in the improvement of the noble
ontlet of the St. Lawrence, England, having
the entire control thereof, may, at the ap-
it, proach of another war, seddenly eonenuirate
nd] the dmalior vessels of her pavy, 19 such num
hel bers, av to throw into the Lakes a force sufli-
he} cient to sweep the stripes and stars from On-
to] tario to Superior, It is, porbaps, hot gener:
[uncertain: d;| ely known that by means of the Rideau and]
of Welland canals, the St. Lawrence™ furnishes
2 ready communication between the” chain o!
nd} Takes and the Ocean. Ships of the larpet
clngs can appronch as far 8s Montreal; from
[uncertain: et-| thence a canal weventy feat wide and with ten]
[uncertain: ro-| feet of water, for the special conveyance of]
steamboats and sloops, in conjunction with
to} slack water hayigation entirely within tht
‘we} Canadian territory, lends directly to Lake Ov-
ion) tai. Our transportation upen the Lake:
109 sill, erelong, be chiefly performed by mean
OM51 of the aplondid steamboats which nse alrend)
rds fast supplanting every other mode of convey:
iflance ; with nothing to defend these, but ar
pecasional revenue cutter, they will becom
et-[the easy prey ef 0 andden invasion and far
[uncertain: dj-| nishing transports for the armies of an eneniy]
[uncertain: on- | move then, with rapidity, from point to point]
ofpand thus easily subjugate the country. Doe
not the want of such a communication wit!
oN} she Ocean within our own térritory invite ng
ing jon? Does not it become our statesme!
for] to look toit? How could there be imagine
[uncertain: nts. | a firmer safe?” thane jrmymedinle: Boil gk]
rect steamboat communication with Hamptor
roads, a central harbor go nobly fortified the
navel ‘establishments at Gasport-—at Washing
[uncertain: rege | tO and (through the Delaware and Chosa]
peak aanel, with that at Philadelphia. /
[uncertain: eN*| communication eo direst andsafe, that consid]
[uncertain: 2m 3 | oring the infancy of steam power, and the im]
[uncertain: ans, | provements making every dny, it is: quit]
probable that #loops, men and munitions ¢
[uncertain: on« | war, cot! i be safely couveyed from the occa)]
[uncertain: aw. | to the lakes in two oF three days, But itt]
WT not for warlike wees that the greatest bopefit
di will flow. fram. this importa work,ewhethe
Tie Canadas rommin as now, the provinces ¢
004 4 nyal power, or fori a part of our great eer
hich { faderacy, the advantage of a connection wit
the [the xonthern States and a southern ontlet t
[uncertain: ree'| the trade of the lakes aro go grent ae to be in]
ited {calculable, The alluvial formation of Virgin
ww, the Carolinas, Georgia and Florida, is &
nels favorable to the construction of rail roads an
lett canals, that such communications are alread
tle rejected, as will permanently unite and cor
He- I nect every principal point of the Atlantic
vision of those States ; a connection of thes
[uncertain: tled | improvements, with the Attamatos, Noise]
[uncertain: ires |mond and Elizabeth ; southern extealious: ¢]

y
i-

Pp

--- Column 5 ---

James river, or with works: connecting’ there-
with, will form a bond of internal communica=
tion from one extremity of the Union to thé?
other, so firm and beneficial in its nature, that
one universal flow of prosperity will hush for-
ever the cries of distinion and secession, But
it is not alone the States of the Atlantic fron-
tier, that will be benefited by this great nation-
al work : by connecting the waters of the Ii-
nois with the southern extremity of lake Mich-
igan, a work already Inid out by the hand of
nature, new avennes will be opened to the trade
of the young and rising states of the Missis-
sippi ant Missouri, which will tend materially
to the general wealth.

What argument can be used against the
immediate commencement, by government,
of the construction of a sloop and steamboat
navigation from the head of the tide on the Sus-
quebhanna to Sodus bay ?.does not Congress
possess the power to grant appropriation
for purposes of internal improvement ? it has
been decided in hundreds of instances in the
aflirmative. Has not Congress the means
at its disposal? the treasury 13 overflowing—
absolutely overflowing. Is not the work
practicable ? what currents in the Susquehanna
can compare with the Long Sault, or with the
most insignificant rapid of the Uttawas, that

have been overcome by the Rideau canal
before alluded to ?
‘The Susquehanno has been professionally
examined and in two instances the improve-
ment thereof pronounced to be within the
means and power of the operations of a sin-
gle state. ‘Ihe surplus revenue of the gen-
J eral government for a single year, will st is
supposed, be amply sufficient for the construc-
1 tion of this great national work. The mon-
[ey expended in the convesance of troops,
ordnance &c. to the lakes, during the late
conflict with Great Britain would have com-
pleted it.
It is needless, fellow citizens, to waste
1] words on this subject. We conceive that
its importance must strike every patriot and
friend of his country, and his country’s inter-
‘Test, with peculiar force 5 we wish to rouse
“1 the general attention of the citizens of the
United States and excite a general action.
There is not a city nora hamlet—a country
nor a township within the wide ranges of the
waters of the northern lakes ; upon the ex-
tensive and various ramifications of the bran-
ches of the Susquehanna and the Delaware
the Potomac and the Chesapeake, but
would have the most substantial reasons to
‘ bless the day, when this great work was ac-
complished. We earnestly desire every one
to speak out-—to memorialize Congress up-
on this subject, urging the immediate com-
tnencement of the work, by ar. ordes for sur-
veys and estimates. There is no time to be
lost-—let the’ people speak—they must be
nN heard ; and ina country and under a govern-
ment like ours, their will obeyed.

MEMORIAZ.

ceo" Senate and House or Rre-
of, RESENTATIVES, OF THE Coycuxas or THe Usirep
t States,

ai The petition of the subscribers, ctti-

sens of Pennsyleania, respectfully repre-
seats :—
'That the various internal pales
which have been constructed, and which are
in the course of execution, in many sections
of our country, have naturally directed the
attention of the public to this important means
of improving the condition of the citizens of
d\this Union. ‘The canals and rail roads, and
8] improvements by slack-water, which have
4) already been constructed, have in. most in-
stances, conferred important benefits upon
the community, within the sphere of their in-
ifffluence. ‘The advantages resulting from
a{them, have excited a desire in many of our
fellow citizens, that a portion of the funds of
I the general government, should be applied to
he inion objects. —The extinguishment of the
public qebt will soon leave a large «amount
of money, at the dis sal of Congress. It
fi cannot be desirable that the immense reve-
nue of the government shall, remain in the
treasury, but rather that it should be expen-
[uncertain: y, | ded, as it arises, in a manner most conducive]
[uncertain: it, | to the public gerd,]
Believing that the. interest of the public
th} generally, requires the “application of a por-
tort of this revenue to internal improvements,
'nt we submit to the consideration of Congrese,
two projects, which we consider to be deeply
[uncertain: i- | interesting (9.2 ore portion of the Union;]
in {and eminently entitled to be congidwed és 1a-
tional improvements, ‘There improvements are
[uncertain: g- | the construction of'a Steamboat Navigation,]
[uncertain: a-| between the seaboard and the Akos, from the]
Chesapeake bay, up the Susquehannah rivet,
d-fand through the Seneca Inke and Oswepr
[uncertain: n-| river to lake Ontario; and a dmilar. Cae]
tion between Michigan Ine En ier
1 i ion o!
river. The construc one Sd sie

ments would effect a cl 4 team
in; boat navigation, ofeeveral thousand: wiles in

is +
itelextent. ‘They would be highy beneficial to
or {many of she States, gud oft ee poten

of importance. ‘The completio3

ne canal and sluck-water ae tion, extending
about 270 miles, from Kingatgn to Montes
to] a communication navigable f sasnlioat the
[uncertain: in-| sloopsand of the Welland can! nroun fro]
ne [Bally of Niagara, have not only age fee
our-own eeaboard, the-productons four on
nd Herritory, but have peculiarly expos@our 20)
dy {ther rontier, in’ the event of & w
[uncertain: n-|Great Batain, ‘Through these imprayements,]
[uncertain: di-| that power will have the means of egncontra.]
ting § large baval forco, upon the lakes» a
counteracting improvement should tt
of fied, which will enable our own coy unment Fe

--- Column 6 ---

meet the enemy, in the event of a war; and:
which will ae retain the unt’ of our west-
‘em states, The expense of erecting a suffi--
cient number of vomit coeuary the e-
tmergency of war, upon the lakes, will be very
considerable ; and they will be of little use in’
antate of peace. The Susquehannah river af-
fords the means of eflecting such a commuica.
tion, at an expense, by no means considerable,
when compared with the immense resources.
of the general government. Of the practica-
bility of the improvement of the Suaquehan-
ha, for steamboat navigation, no question ex-
ietz, The explorations of engineers, under
the authority of Pennsylvania and Maryland,
establish such practicability, at a inoderate ex-
pénse, when considered in_ reference to the
magnitude.of the improvement. The Sus-
quehanna affords a sufficiency of water, as far
North, as the New-York linewethe distance
thence to tide water, is about three hundred
miles. The fall in. this distance, is between
r7 and 800 fect-about 200 of which is between
tide-water and the head of the Conewango
Falls, a distance of about 57 miles. The
Welland canal overcomes a rise of about 360
feet, in 33 miles, Ifa slacaa water navigation
cannot be made at a reasonable expense along
the whole distance between the Conewango
fall and tide, of which however little doubt ex-
ists, a steamboat canal can readily be ”
at such points, as may be necessary. No ob-
stacles to improvement by slack-water, exists
between the Conewango Falls and the New-
York line, The Seneca lake and the Oswe-
go river, afford the means of communication
with lake Ontario,—or if it be considered im-
portant, that the improvement should be effec-
ted entirely within our own territory, a steam-
boat canal may probably be constructed direct
from Geneva to Buflalo, or the Erie canal en-
larged, to answer the purpose, And as to the
Western improvement, but little difficulty ex-
istee-the snmmit level between Michigan lake
and the Iiinois river, being but 12 1-2 feat
high, presents but an inconsiderable. obstacle
to the execution of that part of the project.
The extent of country inierested in
two improvements, embraces probably more
than half of the Union. No other improve:
ments within our country can be proyected,
which will be so extensively useful, Avr &®
bond of union between the East and the West,
the North and the South, they will be of the
utinost importance.. The extensive internal
trade, which will float upon them, will tend to
bind together the remote sections of our coun-
try, by the tie of common interest. In ime
of war, they will afford the opportunity of com
centrating the national force wherever repair
cd. They will ameliorate, and ina t de-
tend to equalize the condition of the peo-
sfe in the different sections of our country, by
Uiording to all, the means of a cbeap @
speedy conveyance to market, and for receiv-
ing in retarn, the various productions of ur
own and of foreign lands. The commerce
our western states will nave & passage wo so
market, entirely within the terntory of taelt
sister gtates ; and the productions of the great
West will be eecured, te our Aine cites,
sassing into the dominions of our n-
gg A eer deposites of Anthracite
coal, which har: as yet been discovered ony
within the limits of Pennsylvania, and whic
exist in immense quantiies, along the Susque-

hanna, render the Eastern improvement
great importance at least or® half of the
states of the Union, Tait pdvaniage cannol
be ebtained by efiveting the eoanerton, a
tween the Ocean and tne Lakes, through t
North River. ‘That river moreover is not so
central to the Union, a8 the Susquehsn’ and
the point of connection, with the e, Ww
rence, would be yreatly exposed v - ene-
my, The Rideau and Welland cal? a, con-
structed by our Canadian neighbors, rigeriita
‘1 300 miles in length, The State ot Peniey!
vania alone has ex nended, upon her imprive-
ments, money int all probaluhty sufficient to
execute the improvements, now project
To the general government, our citizens sa
fidently look for the’ improvement of the geal
channels of intercouree, the cost of whirl
too considerable fot the means of the: #ta
individually, ed Lda) are a te te sev.
states, or to the Nation genera” y. t
the improvements now pettil for, an Fores
of'a notional character, We Pray for et ak
cution, with the funds of the nattet ea ioe
that Congress will immediately Make tate: ‘
1 or have such sur:

propriation for the purpose i on onabe your

soys and estimates mace’
oF abla bodies tonet definitely, in relation
the next seston.
ce and we will ever pray, &>
Valentine Hammel, John C, Bucher,
Joel Baily, Hen an
Henry Buehler, Dr. Ms ibe
Henry K. Strong, John cg i
Geo, W.. Harris, Benue i ale
Henry Walters, Pever tog an Me

Y ck Kelkey. ~ ~j!.Obed.Sahne
Paso re : w a Dutk,
ick [feinely; 7 \ Sat teat
et Heldewan, Mordecai M'Kinney
the
ad-

[uncertain: Daniel Stine, |. couhee]
4K? [The publishers of papers it

wen As manent in ete te thelr ree
lage’ ; fellow citizens in ve~

tive + and our
ee pd ik of ‘our county, A on
improvement projectenare: pequested sia Ha
the memorial re-printed or. written,
lated: for signature.)

It is. mentioned: in 8 southern paper that
there isa brace of yankees i apa app
na, peddling gold Ginger rege wate
cow's horns:

between,

eee

rhe following dialogue took P
Dee Dunlap and hie man John, ™
winter night, padaenager

morning 78% Worry
ge

have we nad?” CWhey i
Ho ean ibm

EN pentane.


===== SOURCE PDF PAGE 10 / ISSUE PAGE 2 =====

--- Column 1 ---

ERAVELLER BOMB.

KEPT BY

Chicago--Illinois.
The subscriber has taken that noted Tavern
Btand in Chicago, lately occupied by Mr. I'm.
Y. Watts, which he will make Home.- possible
eXertion to render the Traveller's
The patronage of the public will be gratefully
scknowledged. Oct. 4, 1833.

NOV. 15, 1583.

C. & I. HARMON.
HAVE recently received a large and gener

al assortment of

Dry Goods, Crackery,
- Hardware, and Wet and Dry Groceries.
all of which they are desirous of seiling at a
small advance from Cost.
They also have on commission, a large lot of

Leather, Saddlery, de.
Grocery & Provision Store.

B. JONES,

CHICAGO-ILLINOIS,
of
KEEP constantly on hand, all kinds of GROCERIES, such as Tea, Coffee, Su-
gar, dc. ofe. and most kinds of PROVISIONS
which he offers for sale at the lowest prices.
Provisions Bought and Sold.
Nov. 26, 1833.

JOHN WRIGHT,

OFFERS FOR SALE CHEAP FOR

CASH,
Merino Cloths, different qualitics and

de. Circassians, colors:
Thibet, Valentia and Prussian Shawls:
Gro-de-nap, Palmerine and Crape Hand'kis
Bandanna, silk, flag. and black. Italian do.
Grauze, garniture and C. P. Ribbons;

Mall, Jackonet and Book Musins;
Fig'd and plain Bobinett Laces:
Quillings and Edgings;

Blue, browa and stael-mix'd Clothe:

Stest-mix d, dark and light blue Saltinette;

White, scarlet, and red Flannels;

Dark and fancy colored Prints:

Indigo Apron Checks and Plaids:

Mersailes, Valentia and Swansdown Vesting*:

Fine Irish Linen: Canton Flannel;

Brown and bleached Shirtings and Sheetings:

Beaverteen-different qualities;
Bangup Cord:

Ready made Clothing-different kinde:

Wick and Wadding:
and other Dry Goods which it is unnecessary to
particularize.

ALSO—1 PRETTT GENERAL ASSORTMEN OP

Hardware, Crockery,
Groceries, Books and Shoes,

Statiouary, Tin Ware, de. are.
all of which he offers to the public on the most
reasonable terms.

Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.

PETER COHEN,

KAST END OF SOUTH WATER-STAKET,

Chicago,--Illinois,
ESPECTFULLY Informs the public, that

. he has on hand a large and spiendid as-
sortient of

PINTER CLOTHING.

ALSO, a fresh supply of

Provisions, Groceries and Liquors,

hial he offere for sale at reduced pricea.

So yablie in general, and to his old cus-
tolstr. parucular, he tenders his grateful ne-
bawledg onate for past favors: and he indul.
ges the belmi, that his reducal prices will ensure

him a continuaur of their patrobage.
Nov. 26, 1833.

GROCERIES.

VINE, BRANDY, GIE, RUM, &c. Sc

20 Barrels Ohio Whiskey.

40 do Oino Supertine Flour.

4 do Buck Wheat Flour.
3 do Cre Kers.

do - Mackinac White Fish.

& Bushels Dried Apples.

Trible Salt, Tin Ware, de.

for sile by S. FOOT.

Clicago, Nor. 26, 1833.

Blacksmithing Business.

..SATTHIAS MASON & CO.
CARTES on the above business in all it

various branches, on Main-street, nearl
opposite Graven Tazern, where they intend :
Keep, ready made, all kinds of Shoes, Chain

Wörk done on the shortest notic

2nd aucet liberal terms.

Chacugo, Nor. 26, 1833.
For Sale,

12 KEGS BLASTING POWDER

16 heavy Steel Pointed CROBARS

Enquire of J. BATES, Jr. at P. Office.
Nut.26.
Cut Nails,

TROM 3d to 2nd, of superior quality,

sale by the keg or less quality, Dy

JOHN WRIGHT.
Not. 26.

Chicago Serp and Candk

MANUFACTORY.

Messrs. DANIEL ELSTON & CO

CG to inform the public, that they h

commenced the Manufacture of Soup a

Calls antiduope by pactuality and allenti

to their business as well as keeping corstantl

and an assortment of all descriptions of H

sad soft SOAP, Wax and other Cardles, to

sure the public support.

N. B. Cash paid for Talleno, in any quenti

aiso for good House Ashes.

.NEWBEBEY & ROLE,

Forwarding & Commiasie

MERCHANTS,

HAVE just received an seertment of n

GOODS, HARDWARE, GROC

J38, dc. dec. which they will sell low for C

Cark paid for Fur Paltries, Been Waz and

Leto. Chicago Not. 96, 180

Dry Goods, Groceries, &e.

WHE sabeeribers have just received u h

some assortment of

DRY GOODS,

€ ocerice and Mardwar

BOOLS A REORR.

[uncertain: whk : offer unusually low for Cash, Pel]
or Proca

BREWS? 2, HOGAN & C

Chicago, Da. 8, 1888.

--- Column 2 ---

From the Hartford ‘Times, th
[uncertain: ‘The following letter from a gentlemsb of this| of]
[uncertain: city now. in Francr, was addressed to the Edit-| 4,]
or of this paper, about the first of September) 6,
last, but was by mistake sent to London, andj;
[uncertain: did not consequently reach us until las. week. |};]
It will be found interesting to our readers, !
“The government of Louis Philippe has ie
[uncertain: sadly disappointed the expectations and hopes | a]
of the’ people The revolution of July,}y
[uncertain: which we hailed with joy in the U. States, |:]
[uncertain: has resulted in a governnient more odious and | jr]
oppressive than the one it oyerthrew. Do} si
not be surprised at my assertions, 1 will es-
tablish them by proofs. I, will begin with) uJ
[uncertain: the conduct of- the present government to- | t]]
wards the public press. You will recollect {y
[uncertain: that the ordinance of Charles X. suspending | c]
‘the liberty of the press, was one of the chief} t
causes of the revolution of July. It wasjc
[uncertain: Jone of the aims of that revolution | to rescue | k]
[uncertain: the press from the control of arbitury pow-|a]
er, and to maintain it free and independent L
[uncertain: in France. But the press to day in France | p]
isnot free. The papers, by the order of]
[uncertain: government, are seized at the post-olfices— | p]
the Editors are arrested, and thrown into]
[uncertain: prison 3 prosecution after ptosccution 18 1-| 5]
[uncertain: stituted, fines inflicted, and these are almost | f]
[uncertain: daily occurrences..Comments on the meas- | ¢]
[uncertain: ures and plans of the government are the on- | }]
[uncertain: ly grounds upon which these tyranical pro- | p]
[uncertain: ceedings gre instituted, and the government | ¢]
[uncertain: generally fails to sustain its charges. It his |t]
in some cases, however, succeeded in obtain-
[uncertain: ing judgments in its favor, and, at present, |e]
[uncertain: the editorial articles of some of the Journals |;]
of Paris, are written within the walls of a},
[uncertain: prison. Every day, seizures are made of |,]
letters of correspondence, pamphlets, and po-
[uncertain: litical documents, public and private. Louis |;]
[uncertain: Phillippe dare not rely on public opinion, the | ;]
only efficient censor of the press, but resorts
to the measures I have above mentioned, to];
overawe the press and crush its influence.
But the press is not the only object of gov-
ernment persecution. Searches and arrests} ;
are every day made at the private residences
of individuals, with the expectation of detec-
ting some plot, finding some treasonable pa-]
pers, or discovering some arms and ammuni-
tion to be imployed in another revolution.—
[uncertain: Yesterday a search was made in the house |.]
of an individual who happened to have in his
possessioit two suspicious looking chests.—
The agents of the government thought they
had made an important discovery, and that
we were on the eve of another revolution.
They expected to find the chests filled with
gun powder, bullets, and muskets, but, lo,
what was their surprise on opening them to
find they contained nothing but books. A
similar instance occurred not long since. A
nuimber of muskets were found in the house
tlofa republican. The police circulated the
story that a great number of arms had been
collected for the purpose of an emente—the
jtruth was, that there ware about a dozen old
muskets around, and only one was fit for use
The police are thus constantly ransacking
the houses and offices of inoffensive citizens,
to discover tome imaginary plot against the
1; government. These domiciliary visits have
been practised by the existing government
only—at least they were not in vogue ni

the preceding government. QOdious and de-
testable as this practice is, it nevertheless
torover jas she ‘overnment is conscivus of its,
Unpopularity——thse it te eentiqually alarm
and frightened at its own shadog ee ase }
The fepobinas party, which at present is.
the only formidable one against the govern.
ment, has different associations for the diffe
sion of liberal doctrines and opinions. The
largest association is called the “Society of
1] the rights of man.” ‘This society is, howe-
ser, divided into numerous others, no one
containing more than twenty members, in
order to avoid the penalties of the existing
law against political meetings. Hes meet.
12B3 though coming within the permission
to] of the law are weekly interrupted and sur-
[uncertain: ns,| pressed hy force, and their leaders are arres-]
[uncertain: e,|ted and imprisoned. The republicans are]
1 {Hot even allowed to have balls, and individ-
vals are prohibited from giving them at their
houses. These tyranical acts of the govern-
[uncertain: eg, | Pent are all enforced by the point of the bay-]
onet. The patriots of Lyons, a short time
since intended to have a public dinner, pre-
parations were accordingly made, and about
five thousamd subscribed. The government,
however dreaded this dinner ; it fearea that
public opinion against its Unpopular course
would be too freely expressed, and according:
ly gave orders to the prefect of the police a
Lyons, not to allow this dinner to take place
The patriots of Lyons were astonished 3 thes
were not prepared for this violation of thei
rights, an persisted in their intentions t
rave (Pave the dinner. ‘The government. was re
pete solved at all hazzards to prevent it, and ser
[uncertain: tinn |S¢¥eral additional regiments of troons to. th]
ly on{place. ‘The republicans remained for som
[uncertain: turd | time fir in their determination, but bein]
vane counselled by their brethren at Pasjs, and i
[uncertain: ity; | the different departments of France, to avo]
hi bloodshed ind massacre to yield the point
government, they finally consented.
Such is the conduct of the dynasty founds
by the vevoution of July. It bas turned
the people who established it; bb
DRY haar bivae ido were its best and mosti
SER- "ods and is now guilty of acts,
cor ralhyene “eclared last wits 4 the Char
ber of Deputies, “worthy of the most despc
KOVEFMMent that ever existed.” It knov
[uncertain: ce, | that it is shored, and that it has nothing]
[uncertain: sand. | hope frox the affections of the people, and]
now Baintains itsell by the hand of pow
alone, The government forgets, that
e; hone, happiness and liberty of France \¢
the’principal objects for which it was call
inh power, and is only ‘occupied with ¢
means of perpetuating its existence.’
[uncertain: 0.. |s#*are safely thie object; Louis Phillippe]
2} forMed‘the plan of fortifying Paris, Th

f

--- Column 3 ---

[uncertain: g, to surround Paris with a chain of forte, wo | be]
[uncertain: hat it could any moment be placed in a state | th]
[uncertain: if siege, or its houses dni edifices battered | th]
[uncertain: lown by cannon... The pretence of the gov-|m]
[uncertain: ernment of course is, that it is to defend Pa-| al]
[uncertain: is against foreign invasion, but nobody be-| w]
eves this. - Unfortunately, also, for this} th
retext of the government, the forts are to] g
be so constructed that they could be made. tol a
[uncertain: sct more efficiently against Paris than an in-/| re]
vadine foe. ‘The principal streets could be tl
ied
raked from one end to the other, so that the tl
inhabitants would be obliged to shut them-}1
[uncertain: selves up in their houses, or retreat into the|tl]
country. It would also be in the power of th
the government to cut.off all sustenance to ¢
the inhabitants from without, as the forts) jé
[uncertain: would command all the barriers, or entran-| tl]
ces to the capital. The government knows
[uncertain: thot a population thus situated and exposed, | t]
could not make a successful revolution: it} ¢
knows moreover, that a day will come when]
another revolution will be made ; and another] ¢
Lattle will, be fought between liberty and the (
[uncertain: people on obe, side and mouarchial institutions | m]
on the other, oid it is thus anxious to pre-)¢
pare itself with every means of defence.—
But this plan of fortifying Paris has met with} b
[uncertain: such an overwhelming burst of indignation | th]
from all parts of the country, and even from Q
the friends of the government itself, that it
has been obliged to suspend the work for the] tl
[uncertain: present. The Chamber of Deputies refus-|jc]
ed to vote the necessary funds for carrying] 7
[uncertain: them on, the government, however, contin= | 2]
ued to construct them for sometime after this} d
expression of opinion of the Chamber, until] s
[uncertain: it was finally compelled to yield to universal | v]
[uncertain: opposition, although it has by no means aban | b]
doned the project. Notwithstanding all this) v
anxiety of the government to protect itself) 4
against the people, all its attempts to cripple p
and break down the influence of the public
[uncertain: press, nolwithstanding its odious violation of| ¥]
the private rights of individuals, we are told} a
that the government is very popular, and] o
that France is contented and happy. Such}
assertions emanate only from the hirelings of] «!
[uncertain: the government. J have had abundant op-|¢]
[uncertain: portunity of learning the state of public opin-|°]
ion in Paris, and ¥ do not hesitate to say that)
[uncertain: Louis Phillippe is not only unpopular, but that | ©]
his government is bated. We are told he} ¢
[uncertain: is every where received with shouts of vie |]
le Roy.” J have witnessed his reception by
the people on numerous public occasions.—
There were afew faint cries of ‘vive le Roi,”
but the mass were silent. This was not so
in 1830—he was then received by the mul-
titude with applause : but now the enthusiasm
of the people has declined to indifference.
[uncertain: The third anniversary of the revolution of|]
July was this year celebrated with more than
[uncertain: usual liberality, on the part of the govern-|]
ment. That is to say, that the government)
took great pains to amuse and divert the peo-
ple. Three hundred thousand dollars were
expended by the goverument for amusements
of allsorts—theatrical exhibitions—fire work
balls—illuminations—concerts, ke. &e.
A frigate was constructed in the Seine, and
althoagh not the most perfect model of a ship,
‘Jit drew thousands and thousands to see it, it
being-a sight that mowt of them had never
enjoyed. The military review was a very
[imposing sight. There were probably near
one hundred thousand troops on the ground,
‘land the whole werld could not produce a bo-
dy of men, superior in appearance of dici-
iene. "The national guards of Paris and the
ENVITONS Ruins 6 aur ssn tautyed tho
‘isand men. Not one half of this number ap-
perred on parade, they refused to attend,
“i lest their presence might be considered as an
approval of the measures of the government.
1) The troops of the line composed the greater
tnumber on review. The exteriors of the
churches were covered with black, in memory
of those who fellon “the three days.” ‘Tem-+
porary monuments were erected on the spots
where numbers of the citizens were buried
during “the. three days,” and funeral hymna;
“jor solemn music were played from morning
tonight. Many collected around these spots,
where lay buried their beloved friends, and
T saw the silent tear trickle down many a
T cheek in heartfelt grief forthe dead. It was
laa affecting scene, and could not help re-
gretting the cause in which those brave men
fell; had so momentary a triumph.

it

' (From the same of Noy. 9.]
, We present our readera with another ex-

tract of a letter from a friend in Paris. It is
written by one who has resided for some

time at the French capital.

3. Paris, September 28, 1833.
Dear Sir—The non-fulfilment of the re-
rir {cent treaty between France and the United
States, on the “part of the former govern-
[uncertain: e-| ment, appears to have created varions apec-]
nt} ulations in the American newspapers. That
the: terms of the treaty, haya not been exe-
[uncertain: cuted, is owing wholly to the negligence o|]
the French Ministers. ‘The treaty was du.
in jly concluded and signed by the agents of the

respective governments, and the Unite:
States had nothing to expect but the faithful

execution of its terms. ‘The French Minis.

ters, however, having asthey supposed more
[uncertain: a- | important affairs to attend:to first, neglecte]

to submit it to the chamber of Deputies, un
[uncertain: in-| tithe session had nearly drawn to'a blove]
as} The Chamber had already voted immens

im-}aums for the expenditure of the government
ot-Jand notwithwtanding the urgent, requests o
ws the friends of the treaty to provide for it
fulfilment, the Chamber refused to do so, o
1 it} the ground that there was no time left to ex
/amine it, and postponed it to the next ses
sion. Consequently, when the first;pay men
became due, and the draft was presented b
led (our ‘government, there “was not a shot
the locker” to meet it. This ie apparent!
To) the true state of the case, and it certain!
reflects wo credit on the conduct of th
‘hat}Freoch Ministers. During the Inet winte

--- Column 4 ---

owaver, Cen. Lafayette atte to bring
he subject cl'the treaty before hamber,
hat it might be early disposed of—he was
nost ely oppose’ by the ministeri-
1 party ; in fact, their conduct was scarcely
within the bounda of civility. It is possible
he Ministers sopposed af that time, that our
rovernment was about crumbling to pieces,
and that:they could act their pleasure with
respect to the treaty. Nullification, to say
the least, gained us no reepect abroad, At
the next session of the Chamber of Deputies,
I have no doubt provision will be made for
the fulfilment of the treaty ; at all events I
trust that our government will act with its
characteristic energy and decision, if the aub-
ject does not receive the early attention of
the French government.

We have just received another proof of
the regard of the new dynasty for the prin-
ciples of the revolution of 1830. The Trib-
une, a republican Journal, was the last week
condemned to pay a fine of 200,000 francs,
(4,000 dollars,) and its editor to’ imprison-
ment for five years, on a charge of exciting
contempt against the King’s government.—
This is the eighty-first time this journal has
been prosecuted, and its eighth condemna-
tion since the revolution, which it was one
of the chief instruments in promoting. © The
editor was also sentenced the last winter to
three years imprisonment on another prose-
cution, making in the whole eight yeare.—
This is no small section of the life of an Ed-
itor. The object of the government.is evi-
dently to destroy this journal. It- cannot
succeed ; thousands have already come for-
ward, freely contributing to pay the fine, and
before eight years shall elapse, the people
will throw open the prison doors. ‘The Na-
tional, the most influential of the opposition
papers, has been also arraigned the last week,

ut the government failed to make it the
victim of its vengeance. © This Journal, of
all others in Paris, is conducted with the
most talent, and by its clear and able reason-
ing in favor of a republican form of govern-
mnent, it is gradually? destroying the monar-
chial principle in France. The editor, Ar-
mand Carrel, is aman of great and noble
powers of mind, and it is by no means with-
out the boinds of possibility that he may be
one day the President of a Republic in

France. ‘The people are becoming tired of
Kings. It is only three years since, that’
[uncertain: Louis Phillippe kissed Gen. Lafayette before |']
the people, and promised that the ‘ charter]:
should be sacred.””. He then shook hands]

with them, called himself the Citizen King,

and promised to be the people’s friend. He!
[uncertain: has now forgotten that he was made King |:]
by the people—he discards from his councils

[uncertain: Latayette and Lafitte, who were most instru-|]

mental io placing him in power, and is actu-

ally buildmg forte to bombard the Capital!

He has, filled the prisons with those who

were once his friends, and ig even compelled

to make use of Forts to contain them all,—

The poor republicans are not even allowed

to have a ball by this King who once could

not sufficiently express his fientship for them.

It is now too late for Louis Phillippe to reign

by the principles of the revolution; he has

utterly aba d them, and is seeking to
sustain his throne by the strong arm of pow-
er. He has fifty thousand troops in the cap-
ital, by three times a gteater number than
the late king had at any onetime. He was
obliged to choose, whether he would reign by.
the pussies of is revolution, with the dis-
ta tion, Suropean. pomerr 4
arr the mime f jociples "gaint fete
of the revolution. He has chosen the latter,
and is now endeavoring to crush the very
principles which gave existence to his throne.
The people in the mean time are patient, but
there is point beyond which their endu-
rance will not go. The longer, however,
the struggle is delayed, the better they will
be prepared for it. Come it must, and when
1) the people shall regain the power, they will
be careful not to surrender it into the hands
of a king. :
The intyence of our form of government
00 the public mind in Europe, is immense,
and is daily augmenting. It is not too much
to say, that in the course of time, should the
United States continue under their ha py
system of government, the influence of their
example alone will revolutionize Europe.—

During the recent difficulty in our country,

the most intense anxiety wae manifested a
the issue ip this wide Lhe Atlantic. ‘The op-

pressore of man caught a tm of hope, and
the frends of liberty ibd atime Meject-

ed, but since the cloud bas disappeared, the
latter have taken fresh courage, and the for-
mer are redoubling their energies to resist
the coming storm. This is not idle or vain
conjecture, it is impossible to read the jour-
nals and reviews which sufficiently denote
the atate of the public mind, without having
thoee truths forced on one’s self. We may
be sleeping in our graves when these events

place, but come they will, as” sure as
there is a sun in the heavens.

t was the intention of the early friend of
our country, Gen. Lafayette, to have gone
to America, had not the late difficulty been
amicably settled. The. conduct of General
Jackson during that period is’ deserving o!
the everlasting gratitude of his countrymen.

‘The affairs of Portugal create t inter:
est. Although the young queen Donna Ma.
tia has been recognized by the government
of England and France, yet as appearence:
now are, it is by no means certain that she
will be able to possess herself of the throne
without the assistance of those powers. In.
[uncertain: x-|terference on their pert would give cissatis-]
faction to Russia, Prussia, and Austria, and
perhaps lead to serious quarrels.

The English papers are considerably occu
pied at present on the subject of tithes. The
clergy appear to be more than ever merci
leas in their exactions, and the people lex
thag ever disposed to yield to them. In
stances sre given, where the clergy havi

te

--- Column 5 ---

ty, and io their merciless gripe, have not left
the poor and needy a sufficiency to subsist
upon. Poor lsborers, whose whole earnings
[uncertain: do not exceed ten pounds a year, are com-|1]
[uncertain: pelled to pay the tenth part to the clergy, |:]
and indefault are seized and thrown into}
prison, and destitute, bare-footed girls, whose 1
only means of subsistence is in hunting for
cockles on the sea shore, do not escape this
priestly extortion. Such are the “tender
[uncertain: mercies” of the clergy, and the benefits of |,]
[uncertain: an established religion. The papers say that |;]
the clergy have actually gone mad; one
thing is certain, they are rapidly bringing
destruction on their own heads. Fortunate-
ly with us, rétigion is not armed with the
hand of power—we have no law to say what
is orthodoxy, and no man is privileged to
say what is heresy and the sacred profes-
sion is only respected when it points the
way to heaven through the paths of peace.

[uncertain: lis not surprised that an eminent clergy- |.]
man of your city on his return from Europe,
a few years since, preached a sermon, atrong-
ly impregnated with republican sentiments.
it did great credit to his candor, and it is to
be regretted that it never appeared in print.

The Cholera has re-appeared in Paris—
the number of cases have as yet been moder-
ate, but it is daily assuming a more alarming
form.

The following petition to Congress, of the
citizens of Michigan, has been politely forward-
ed tous, by a highly respectable gentleman at
Detroit. Wo call the attention of our citizens
to this subject. It speaks a language that can-
not be misunderstood. “The claims of our neigh:
bors in the Territory, on the aid and assistance
of Government, are just, and will without doubt
be allowed, We are pleased with the public
spirit manifested by the people of Michigan, but
when we turn from them to our citizens, we
blush at tho indifference and inactivity of the
people of our own State. Every paper brings
us proof of the spirit that iy awakened around
us: Pennsylvania, Indiana, Michigan, all, all
are alive to the important subject of Internal
Improvements; all of them are striving to cx-
tend a knowledge of the subject, and to impresa
the importance of immediate action, upon the
people of their respective States, But Winois,
careless and indifferent to her vital interesta,
sleeps on her opporiunities ios acquiring wealth
and influence, and slumbers over the means of
developing Her resources. ‘‘A little more sleep
and a little more slumber," and she will soon
deserve, richly deserve the opprobrium that has
already been cast upon her. Let us follow the
example of the citizens of the Territory, and no
longer rer. in idle end inattentive to our inter-
cata.

TO THE SENATE ‘AND HOUSE OF REP.
RESENTATIVES OF THE i

The undersigned, inhabitants of the Terri-
tory of Michigan, respectfully represent :
That from the moment when the resour-
ces and capabilities of the peninsula of Mich-
igan began to attract attention, the impor-
tance and easy practicability of a communi-
cation across its base, by a railroad or canal,
became apparent. ‘That such a communica-
tion would sooner or later be made, has neve
er been doubted by any,one acquainted with
the character of the country through which it
would pass. “There has been no question,
except as to time and manner. Your peti-
tioners, and the citizens of Michigan gerere
ally, believe that t.e time-has now “Arrived
for preparatory action. That this impression
is the result of a deliberate judgment, that
the measures we propose arg not premature,
80 proof would be necessary to those who’
have witnessed the surprising rapidity with
which the resources of the country on the
proposed route of communication, have been
developed, within the lust few years. As
some evidence of this, we will now only ad-
vert to the fact, which the records of the
treasury will establish, that during the three
ears last past, upwards of a million of dol-
jats have been paid for lands in that section
of the territory which would feel the benefi-
cial influence of the measure that we are now
anxious to see put into a train of accomplish
ment. These lands too, it is not immaterial
to observe, have been bought, almost with-
out exception, by actual settlers, in the small-
er legal subdivisions of the public lands.
Your petitioners believe that the opinion
is now nearly universal in the territory, that
a rail-road would be the preferable mode of
connecting lake Michigan with the waters of
the eastern side of the peninsula, Amon
the grounds of preference (besides the obvi-
ous considerations Prowing out of our climate)
may be mentioned the fact that the general
face’ of the country would admit of the eon-
struction of a rail-road over any route which
considerations might indicate ae “most eligi-
ted
ed,

ble: and further, that there is a well foun
belief that a rail-road on the route
would, in connection with a similar work uni-
ting Chicago with the Illinois river, become
one of the great lines of travel between the
Atlantic and the west. In regard to this
latter proposition, presenting as it doesa con
sideration so important as regards the utility
of the enterprise in question, it may not be
[uncertain: r~| superfluous to state briefly some of the grounds]
ax} upon which it rests.. ‘The distance from St.
ts) Louis to New-York, via Chicago, Detroit
tetand lake Erie is estimated to be one hundred
miles less than the present mail route be-
tween the first mentioned points. ° The nat.
i} Ural facilities for travel or transportation over
[uncertain: s-|the former route are unquestionably greater,]
much of it being performed by water, and
the land carriage being for the most part over
u-/an uninterrupted plain. In the present un-
interrupted state of the road, a citizen of De-
[uncertain: t-|troit has contracted with the post-office de-]
partment, to carry the mail in’ eleven day.
b-}from that place to St. Louis, in
He designs td carry passengers between thous

--- Column 6 ---

two points, at the Season most favorable fe
travelling, in eight daye, Five days, durin
the sesson of navtgation, is the time ocenpiag
between Detroit and New-York. ‘Thy, nil
toad from the Detroit, westward, for Which
your. petitioners are now soliciting your Pah
tonage, and that from Chicago to the Ninoy
iver, for which Congress has made ay,
peopraicn in lands, lie on the ‘direct th
rom Detroit to St. Louis, If, therelnre
these works should be accomplished, jt,
pears reasonable to anticipate that the per
al communication of the country north of &
Levis, with the Atlantic, will be by Detraj
and the lakes. Independent of this conaid:
eration, the pepe! tail-road from Detroit
to lake Michigan, passes over a fertile cong,
try, becoming populous with a rapidity gh,
most unprecedented in’ the west.

Your petitioners would, therefore, am
eatly solicit, from your honorable bods, y
grant of public lands to the territory, to te
applied by its legislative authority, to the
eunstruction of a sail-road: from Detrot by
some eligible point at or near. the Souther
extremity of Lake Michigan. Your petition.
ers would refer to the act of Cougress of the
2d of March, 1827, pranting a quantity of «
land to the role of Jibei, as a fund to be
applied to the purpose of connecting the 1;
a river with lake Michigan, ie the ‘
of the same date, granting a like quantity to
Indiana, to aid that state in forming a com.
munication between-the Wabast and hake
Erie. Your petitioners advert to ;
among the many instances of the enlighten.
ed bounty of Congress in aid of importast
works of internal improvement, as precedents
familiar to themselves, and as relating to gh.
Jects with which the work they have in view,
may be placed in advantageous comparinn,
Ifa similar liberality be extended to the pro.
ject which we advocate, your petitioners te.
lieve: that this important work could be a
once commenced and successfully prosecuted,

Your petitioners present these views ty
your favorable consideration, and as in duty
bound, will ever pray, Ke.

at

MIGAGOS DiBwOCHAL,

a

SSE
Chicago, Tuesday Dee. 10, 1833..

Our last number contained a brief epitome of
the carly history of Chicago, and. promised to
continue the subject, and to lay before our rea
ders, the story of the massacre, which took
place here in 1812. We have heard various as
counta of the different causes which led to this
Unfortunate event, but the most authentic, a5 it
appears to us, is the one which we subjoin. If
we state any circumstance connected with the
story, that is not in strict accordance with trath,
our columns are open to communications fom
any of our readers, who are betier Benuainted
with it than ourselyes, ~y'

Somewhero about the Gth or Oth of August,
1S12, Gen. Hull, then occupying Detrait with
his army, conceiving the garrison at Chicago
43a untenable, (or from some other motive not
known, transmitted orders to Capt. Heald, then
commanding the post at thie place, to evacuate
it forthwith and march to Fore Wayne, st ae
same time inatrycting him to distribute tho pro.
visions and amtnunition, that otherwise ho
would be compelled to leave in the fort, among
the tribes of Indians. in’ the neighborhood, the
better to ensure their friendahip, or at jeast nsu-
trality, upon which there had: been before but
little reliance. In obedience to these orden,

preparations were made for the immediate r-
moyal of the troops. The Indians were eat
for; some at the distance of 150 miles. They
[came in great numbers, By the 13th of the
Month, Chicago wae filled with several hundred
Pottawatamies, eagerly and anxiously expect:
y {ing the promised supplies, At'this jugctan,
Capt. Walls, a bold and daring: officer, accom
panied by thirty Miami Indians, aprived athe
garrison with counter orders from Geo. Hull,
that no provisions should bo gifen ta. tlm Ind

ans,—-the: every thing not i
should be destroyed. ‘These subsequent ardent
were carried Into effect, On*the night follee
ing, about two hundred rifles were. broken, a4
fj the fragments, together with proviricns pa
stores of all kinds, were thrown inte the ret:
This fact came to the khnowledgw of the Indi,
and the first impulse which outuate? them, wee
1} their Most natural passion, revenge, Indigniat
at being called from their homes, tp a place

far distant, under the hopes of recgiving Wat!
ae promised to them, and then finding i!

they bad como only to. bo disappointed in that
expectations, they formed the design of retalit-
ting for the injuries and ineults whiel: ty bad
supposed were designedly practiced vppon thes
Maintaining as. they had previously to 8
merely 4 neutral disposition, ‘it peedgd tat Oe
sinallest pretext to rousp them into horlilll:
r That pretext they now considered aa held o¥t

to them, and the young men resolved to iat
[se of it. ‘The chiefs advised and remousnid
it ‘but without effect, and when theao were found

unavailing, three Indians, Pierish le Cle (st
this very time in Chicage,) Wineg-mac, hed
fish, and Muck-kit-tah-pock-ke,.or Black
tridge, made their way’ into the. fort ey
[uncertain: p, | and gave information of the eameperation ¥ ;]
powreesed the Tndiang, and the designe whi
they contemplated accomplishing, They ft
ther suggested to the officers a way to oar?
the dangers that threatened them.. They P°:
[uncertain: r- | posed, that it should be held gut that the U*M]
bad relitsquished the ides of pemovivg at 2%,
8. at least for som time to come, wntil they
received further: imatructions from Gen, Hist


===== SOURCE PDF PAGE 11 / ISSUE PAGE 3 =====

--- Column 1 ---

iy ae ONS ane the }s

the proposition
Prabeededs and on the 15th]:
the post W8* evacuated, and the]
[uncertain: aut to commence their destined | ‘]
[uncertain: They had proceeded | ‘]

f

gin ens the yell of two hundred savage
wnt the report of as many rifles rung
wae”, and the moment after one half ot
ee dof soldiers that had left the fort,
opis! the beach. The Indians who from
[uncertain: py id ‘mation that they were to’ bo dis- |?]
arate 4 presents, had kept
sated jn their expected presents,
eye upon every movement of the
amr ad when tho latter leit the garrison,
wes with all the ardor of Indian warriors,
ions route to the Lake shore at the
es the event above described occurred.
a the ambuscade was formed directly be-
Lpeiee of sand hills or bluffs, that rise to
aconsidersble heighth, and from fifteen to thir-
tT yards from the Lake itself. —Here the Indi-
aus waited antil the soldiers arrived, and when
within simost reach of the muzzle of their guns
in their deadly fire. A desperate
jgitle ensned. The whites fought like men
aghore existence depends upon the cast of a mo-
pent, and lit was only when they found their
Iittle band overpowered by numbers, and their
comrades reduced to a mere handful, and when
jndeed it would be worse than madness to lon-

‘i rrendered. Capt. Wells
get resist, that they wu 1 :
and his party of Miami’s were some distance in
the reat; im, tao were Dot spared, A detach-
ment of Indians attackel.them, and those of the
Miami's who were not kiltel, at the first dis-
charge, fled in every direction. Tn suldition to
the number of soldiers, Lieut. Rounan and the
autgeon, Dr. Van Voorher were killed. Cap-
tains Heald and Helmes were severely wound
edand taken prisoners. They were conveyed,
or rather dragged by the Indians to their wig-
wam, where after a confinement of more than
two months, and after a partial recovery of their
wounds, Capt. Helmes was releaged on parole.
Qne of the most daring and adventurous inci-
dents connected with the sequel of this unfor-
tunate tale, is that in which two females were
the actors and sufferers. The wives of two of
the officers, in the midst of the alarm and ter.
ror which agitated them, betook themselves to
a sinall boat for refuge, and not only set out on,
but actually accomplished in safety, a voyaye
to Mackinac on the open Lake, without a helm
or compass to guide or direct them. It was in.
deed a master-piace of female heroiem. Imme
diately after this massacre of troops, the Indian
returned satiated with blood, but their appotit
for revenge was unsatisfied. util the fort wa
inashes. In this state it remained till 1817
when it was rebuilt by order of Government!
and it haa ever since remained with but a shor
interval, amilitary post of importance.

The Rail-Road.—From the silence we hay
hitherto observed, on this subject, it might b
supposed that we had forgotten the pledge cor
tained in cur prospectus. We have that fi
withheld our remarks, that we might preser
them to our readers, based upon facts derive
from a careful examination of the subject, «
with the hopes that some correapondent bet
acquainted with it than ocursclyes would fay:
us with bis information,

There seems to bea great diversity of opi
jon as to the comparative advantage2 to be d
rived Som a Bs? Road or Canal. Give us on
s let us have 4 communication that will make

nearer neighbors to our Southern and Weaste
cittzens,let us have something that will develo
the vast resources of our state and we will
contented. But if the people continue in. th
Present state of apathy, on a aubject of such
talinterestto the whole Weat, we shall a
have ‘the consoling reflection, that if India
Michigan, and the surrounding states have
their enterprise and energy, far outatripped

in wealth and prosperity, that we at Jeast
hot trouble ourselves with such matters.” If
Michigan Srincr can by means of of rail-ro
find ® quick and ready market for his prod
hie Hinois ueighbor ean reat satisfied
knowing that the expense of constructing
Toads pever came from hia pocket. But le
ask, why this apathy,—this usconcern. Is
Ladies alicia Look at’ New-York

Mipare her present wealth and ity
what ehe was when the Canal uty gine
menced. The wilderness has become agan
and the unpeopled foreat has become the

dence of thousands of human beings. For
change she is indebted to the wisdom, the
pias ont forethought of her illustrious (
is there but knows the prejudice
pi ubts and the fears he had to contend wit
Pres the immortal Jefferson, when avkes
shila, ah the contemplated work,
area contury before the 4

and when after ity completion, he

What he thought me - Wha 3

ght then, he replied, “Tam g
tury behind the age.” Let ug ag be told

Stat our project is premature or chimeri¢g!

t we are told we are without the mes

i sea the work. Look again at

Mis Without money, without resource

unds an ld)
sib the work. ‘The faith and condi’
mai, jad ing me the result has justi
sonatisea a whole expense

Ge a of this noble work ia, within

pick ie of ite completion, ‘almost liqu

caual remaing alasting moouhhen

Saterprise of the people of N.

Benins of hin whe was the en York ans
‘ivance, of this wae Peek
Mler of the weatern w

iy

Seca
pe

On monday of lant wees commenced
00 of Congress, This is a wagon bj
Ls fate of freedom and of Rome; ' The
nternal improvements and (we are wey

ion, will demand the ationtion

--- Column 2 ---

stormy debates, bitter reflections, and personal
animosities. ‘The political borison has been
growing darker and darker. The cloud that)
overhangs us, must baret, but aeto.g as we have
our present bold and skilful pilot at the helm
of government, we cre confident that the
ship of state will weather the coming storm and }
ride ont the gale in safety. x Rat

[uncertain: On our first page, will be found an addrese|:]
[uncertain: and memorial, framed and adopted at Harris. |,]
burg, Pa. on the subject of a sloop and steamboat
[uncertain: navigation, to connect the waters ot the North- |!]
urn Lakes with those of the Atlantic, or of tho}
Gulf of Mexico. The route proposed is by the
Susquebannah river to Lake Ontario, The),
[uncertain: question of its expediency and practicability, |,]
can easily bo settled; the means of carrying this
project into effect, are in the hands of goyern-
[uncertain: ment. The utility of the work, can be fully |’]
tested to. the satisfaction of the whgle country
in a short period of time, The arguments con-

gentlemen in various sections of the country,
that we should send them the “Democrat” from
the first No. The unexpected extensive circu-
lation of our paper, will prevent our complying
[uncertain: with their wishes. We would alxo romind|]
some of the applicants for our paper, that they
[uncertain: overlooked our invariable rule, ‘payment in ad- |)]
vance.” Our agents are fully authorized to re-
mit all moneya received by them on our account,
by the Post-Office at our risk.

Political Felons of the next Legislature
i of N.Y.
THE SBNATE.

The next senate will consist of twenty-six
repubhiewys,, five anti-masons and one national

republican,

HOUSE OF ASSEMBLE:

Republicans, Irregians:
1} Albany 3 Renseelaer 4
Allegany 1) Warren 1
Broome 1 ”
Cattarugus 1 5
Cayuga 4
Chautauque z
re} Chenango 2 oAnti-mazonic.
of Clinton 1 Erie 2
r} Courtland 2 Franklin 1
of Columbia 3 Genesce 3
1,{ Delaware 2 Livingston 2
Dutchess 4@ Nisgara 1
Essex 1 -
nN) Greene 2 9
Ns 1. Herkimer 3
[uncertain: e- | Jefferson 3]
ns} Kings 1
te] Lewia 1
Madison 3
Monroe 3
Montgomery 3
Ms} New-York iN
ort Oneids 5
Onondaga 4
Patan: 4 §
ve range:
be} Orleans 1
Oswego 1
Otsego “4
far Pomsm 1
mnt} Queens 1
ed} Richmond 1
Rockland 1
ter} Saratoga 3
‘or Schenectady 1
Schoharie 2
Seneca 2
1°) Suffolk 2

de-} Sullivan’, 1
nez} Steuben 2

us By Lawrence -
io,
i Tompxing 8
i be Ulster. 2

Washington 3
heir} Wayne a
vil Weetchester- 3
Yates _ ei
ann, core
by 114 :
Tre Avapama Case.—There'is like
after all, to be an adjustinent of difficult
[uncertain: Ifthe | between the peneral government and]
state of Alabama. The Richmond Exc
and rer furnishes the following information, wh
wi

is presumed to be authentic: “The gi
and real difficulty in:the case, consists in
number of persons who have settled upon
ceded lands. Their entire. removal w«
be attended with much distress. The e
tion of auch'a multitude, “especially ae m:
[uncertain: com- |of them were induced to remove to the p]
[uncertain: rden, |Jic lands, in consequence of the tempor]
resi- permission which was given by the secret
[uncertain: r the|in December last, could scercely be atten]
e en-jed but in the very last resort. "It is uni
[uncertain: Clin. | stood it will not even be thought of, unti]
other means shall fail for carrying the ir
into effect, But means have been ado
which are calculated to produce the most
[uncertain: Kj ex-|picious results. Col. Albert, the topogr]
[uncertain: age,”” | cal engineer, has been despatched to the]
[uncertain: asked |!tory with the most urgent instructions]
[uncertain: acen-|complish the survey and selection of the]
[uncertain: d then'| 449 lands. It is hoped that before the]
a riod fixed for the removal has arrived,
[uncertain: ana of |: Willhave made such progress in the]
20028 of location, as to supercede all the
[uncertain: enaaye | erations of the Marshall and of the mil]
[uncertain: nal, ahe |2uthorities. We understand that he]
pepe been directed to is the survey as ra
[uncertain: of the |e pomsible, and if be cannot locate the]
ified the Vidual reservations in time, he is to
of the

ate the tracts within which these are
ae effected ; 90 a8 to leave the other porti
te fel the district free for occupation. In t
pene! vent the Marshall ie to stay all furthe:
ny and thus, we trust, the whole

[uncertain: ad of the | ter wi accommodated. Col. All]
duly impressed with the deep anxiety

the President feels to adjust thie unpl
dispute—and we uaderstand has full at

[uncertain: the ses-| ty to employ as many persons as may]
nig with Ss wecauaplinh ths obiect in to
[uncertain: e tarifs, | possible time.]

[uncertain: ytousy)| Mr. Key is also instructed to aid {]

[uncertain: n of our|torney of the district, to examine the]

--- Column 3 ---

[uncertain: that while the laws of the United States are| fe]
enforced, the laws and judicial autliorities of pH

Alabama should be duly, respected. bs

LATEST FROM EUROPE. i

The packet: ship Virginian, C Marris, ¢
[uncertain: ims brought Loxton papers to October oth, | j]
end Liverpool to the 7th both inclusive,

The news from Portugal seems to indicate
that the race of Don Miguel is nearly run,
All the principal French o rs, includin
Gen. Bourmont, have left. his service, The
Queen Donna Maria arrived at Lisbon on the
22nd September and was received with the
greatest enthusiasm,

The King of Spain is said to have died on
the 29th, and the news of the event to have
been transmitted to Paris by telegraph from
Bayonne, v

The following are extracts:

Landon, Sept. 30th 1833,—We have a re-
newal of the infamaus system of burnings,
Fires are kindled up im several parts of the is-
land, put in Bedfordshire and Bucks, the incen-
diaries are proceeding in the most open and
fearful manner, The. destruction of property
has been very great ; but notwithstanding fiir
promises, and handsome rewards, not a single
suepicioue person has been arrested,

London, Oct, 5, 1833—-Some particulars of
the calamitons and terrific hurricane which hag
visited the East Indian coast, have recently
been received. From Diamond Harbor, as far
aa the eye could sec, the sides of the river
were literally covered with the'bodes of men
and animals. Out of 4,000. péople who resided
in the vicinity of the above mentioned place,
only 1,000 escaped and those were dying with
thirst, ag the sea had swept over and destroy-
ed all the tanks, The western shore was in-
undated to the height of seven feet, and deer,
cattle, and tigers, floated upon the surface of
the flood. A letter from Shikapore eays, that
[uncertain: only 60 men, as many women, and about 20 |a]

children, are all that are left out of 950 gouls;
London Oct. 6.—Lord William Russell,
whose conduet since the advance of the Mi-
guelites towards Lisbon has not been such as
to meet the views of the Foreign Secretary,
or ie Government, will be removed forthwith
from his post, tin.%-tore zealous Liberal ap-
[uncertain: pointed. We believe, that head William dur | y]
[uncertain: ing his sojourn in Lisbon, has scen-evough of | 4]
[uncertain: the Portuguese character, and of the ment |]
the combatants, to feel some doubts about the
propriety of committing his Government too
much in the present stage of the contest=
Lord Palmerston and Lord Grey are however
of a different opimon: and Lord Howard de
Walden, a protege of Mr. Canning, will, it is
ald be sent forthwith to the Court of Donna
aria,

Ose Day Larer—By the arrival of the ship
Susqnehannah, Capt. Dixey, at Philadelphia,
from Liverpool :

The reported death of the King of Spain is
confirmed. The Queen, assisted by « council
of five persons, had assumed the regency in
behalf ofher daughter. ‘The late prime minis-
ter, M. Zea Bermudez is a member of the
council of the Regency, though sn to
be favorable to the claims of Don Carlos, who
is the disputant for the throne... His appoint-
ment hes caused general dissatisfaction among
the fnends of the conatitutional cause in Spain.

The French government has sent an agent
with instructions to their Ambassador, favor-
able, it is enid, to the cause of the young
Queen,

Nothing new from Portugal. Tt is said
Bourmont did not adopt the regolution, to re-
ure from the service of Miguel, votil he found
his advice was not followed, and that the offi-
cers generally were 80 disgusted with the ser-
vice, that even one of the staff was in corres-
pondence with Pedro,

Gen. Mins, who bas been for some time

fat in-Emgland, ty au the paar a8 delle bi,
departure for the south of France, for the ben-
efit of his health. It is eaid the death of Fer
2 \Seeand has accelerated his departure.

Ayremium of five hundred dollars is offered
to any penion who will daft a bill for regula-
ting steam-trat perigation, that will meet
with the approba¥an of Congress, and pass into
a law at their next semion. If several deaits

are offered, the premium “will be given to the
author of that which shall be passed without
ely, alteration, and if any question shouldnyise as
[uncertain: Ities | to the pergon entitled to the reward, the 1]
will be referred for decision to the Hon. Jame:
qui-(hent. ‘The bills, when pergered. may be lef
io" with the editor of the New York Dnily Adver
tiser, who will disclose the nate of the indi
vidual guarantecing the payment of the pre
nitutn, i

MUATARY ELECTIONS,

The fullowing gentleman were elected Gen
[uncertain: hany | erals of Militia at the election held on the 21s]
[uncertain: pub- | September last, under the late Miltia act :]

Moses M. Rawlings, Major General tet Di
tision.

Bikes Eee D, Ewing, Major General 41

Jivision,
GR, P. Maree), Major General Sth D

viinin, :
James Hall, Brigadier General 4th Brignd
ae ry ;
ade, 24 nen he i 2
Jacob Foye, Brigadier General, 24 Brigad
Division. = e
M. Lb, Covell, Brigadier General, 24 Briga
4th Division, ¢
haac Vandeventer, Brigadier General, 1
Brigade, Sth: Division, 4

ad

A Knaye ann & Foot.Two or the
weeks ago a man applied ata boarding hou
for lodgings, stating that he was a planter. fri
the South. He had noticed a young lady
the window andit wae not long before
made her acquainted with the fect, that thou
[uncertain: to be | posseesed of great wealth he was destitute]
ions of {2 partner, and that it wae the glimpse
caught of her person which induced him
take lodgings there, He said aslight acqua
[uncertain: eF pro- | tance had confirmed. hia favourable pre]
[uncertain: je mat-| sions andalthough he was somewhat advan]
Ibert is] yet sf ae bial convent to be his aie
[uncertain: which| would do what he could to compensa’]
[uncertain: leasant| by settling uppon her the sum of five thous]
r-\ dollars at once, and making her as ha
be ne.{hi# own efforte and bie ample po i
ne least) Vould enable him to do. The young *

a9! though under anether obligation,
an oportunity too good to be lost.. ‘The co
[uncertain: the at-| ship commenced on Eider ont ‘she wed]
e whole tock place on Tuseday. bridegroom

--- Column 4 ---

ew articles in his pand-box and the tail
ppointed bin upon his havty order for a weil-
Lng suit. ‘That however was a matter of
inal] importance with a gentleman whose if
character rested on much more stable founda.
jong, ‘The new clothes and every ping else
be-

i tg ween mem 9 Seen. VY Ohes SSeS and a #
oa dis-

would be ready for the weddin, visit, t sane
ng “at home,” which was fixed a few evenings
head, Before that time arrived however,

old his blooming wife one morning the: he had Fe

strange dream during the night,which troubl-
ad him ; and, said he, “I ain gone ont, and if]
do not return, you may think something hag
1appened tome.” He did not come back, and
m vending to his washer wotpan, it was found
hat a couple of shirts hv been sent to him on
board a steam-bont, ‘i'he ‘steam-boat was
zone, and the rich planter had gone too, band.
nox andall, _As he left his bill unpaid, and
us young wife nota little in the lurch it ie
presumed that something hes hapnened to him.
Jour, of Com, :

neem

New-Yonr, Nov. 9
Yesterday. morning, between nine and ten}?
clock, as a train of three cars were proceed
ng towards Philadelphia on the Canden and
Amboy rail-road, about 5 miles from Heights-
own, an accident occurred by’ which one life
was lost and several persons’ seriously hurt.
One of the axles of the forward car broke,
and the car immediately following drove a-
zainst it with such force that it was thrown
irom the rails and overset. Of the passen-
gers, who were 25 in number, one, Mr. J.
C. Steadman, a silver-smith of Raleigh, N.
C. was killed on the spot, and 15 others in-
jured, some severely, among whom are Mrs.
Bartlett and:her child, and a gentleman from
the interior of Pennsylvania. Capt. Van-
derbilt and Mr. Dreytous, of thiz. city, are
among the wounded. John Q Adame was
a passenger in the car which was overthrown,
but received no injury. The passengers in
the forward car were not hurt. The third
car contained only baggage.— Post.

Straxce Cincumstance.—There jg a
young man in the town of H——~, Vermont,
teho cannot speak to his father. Previoue
to his birth, some difference arose between
his moter and her husband, and fora con-
[uncertain: siderable time, she refused to speak to him. | ;]
[uncertain: The difficulty was #dksequently healed—the |};]
child was born, and in due ‘ve_ began to
talk—but when sitting with his fate: was
invariably silent. It continued so until it}
was five years old, when his father, after
having exhausted his powers of persuasion,
threatened it with punishment for its stub-
ornness, When the punishment was infhe-
ted, it elicited nothing but sighs and groans,
which told too plainly that the little sufferer
was endeavoring to speak. All who were
present united in the op.nion, that it was im-
possible for the child to speak to its father—
and time proved their opinion to be correct.
At a mature age—alter it had arrived at
manhood—its efforts to converse with its pa-
rent could only produce the most bitter sighs
and groans.

The individuals we have alluded to, says
the Spectator, are all in good circumstances,
and our’ informant has not only resided in
their neighborhood for years, but is personal-
acquainted with them.— Boston Aforn.

‘ost.

We understand, the company of Santa-Fe
traders, who went out last March from this
state to New-Mexico, have returned from
Athaie aabprpritipe nim odisiwner RNC have}
returned in good health and have been very
successful, bringing with them about one] /
hundred thousand dollarsin specie, besides
some other valuable property, such as furs
d{and mules, which are thought will produce a
considerable sum: Our neighbor, the intel-

1 ligencer says that they met with no moleata-

tion by the Indians'on the route, and that
they have generally made profitable adven-
[uncertain: i, |tares.—-Salt River ( Mo.) Journal. i]

~ The people of some parts of the State of:
ad Mincut ae calling ‘eb the Governor to’
tl eonvene the Legislature, for. the purpose of
' l establishing a State Bank. The Timessays,
“We are inclined to believe that the senti-
ment of the State is generally favorable to
the measure.”

Another Disaster—The Steam Boat
Mount Vernon from Louisville, was brought
to this port on Sunday Morning last by the
Robert Fulton, having collapsed her boiler
near the mouth of the Ohio, two or three
days previous. By this accident, four lives
were lost, and one person was much injured.
[uncertain: Di. | Mo. Rep.]

dle,
ig:
de,

ade

acu msigreann snore
[uncertain: pareeunpunaiesornesnersemnene and]

Inhabitants of School District No. 1, are
Ui dah to mect at the School House,on Wed-
newlay evening next at 6 o'clock, to elect offi-
cere, and to transact other busincss connected

i istric t uing your.
with the district, for obi ine Lene 1633,

‘septs eeeieaescene reese aatceerth ra

MARRIED,

Vandalia, on the 29th ult, by the Rev.
Weak Gut Sera C. Sumaman, eaq. Fd-

itor of the Vandalia Whig, to Miss Evszauern
wee Axe Hor,
In Troy, N. ¥. og the Oth ult.*by the Rev,
Dy, Butler, Mr, Netsos Wittanp, oaealiant of
y atl Ruffalo, to Misa Hetiay, daughter of the late
he} John Kimberly. :

ugh

e of j

he Ze. De Ga oe aw
ATTORNEY. & COUNSELLOR A A
inin- And Solicitor in Chancery,

wey NE, dqpr cast of Brewst~, Hogsn i 2
nced South Water-stroat, Csicago, Minow, :
he] Bec, 20,189 =

“guano! MORSES!!

2 a ANTED, twenty-five or

[uncertain: iady,| © © thirty young Horses, fo]
th which Cush will be paid.
[uncertain: iding| JOHN T. TEMPLE,]

es

--- Column 5 ---

TO LOAN,
Nomen Att onl

eae tre—-rieenah retina
JOHN 8. KINZIE,

[uncertain: orwarding & Commission | Fi]

WIBRORA TT

CHICAGO—ILLINOIS. ?

REMOVALS.

TIE office of tho Clerk of the Cj
[ county Courta for Cook county eee pg
to the building one door West of the house H

Col, Owen,

Ba ea ee mag
ye Auction Sale.

“OT 7, in block 8, and house op, the

4 formerly occupied as a Meeting House”?
sie the bridge on the North Branch of Chic,
River. At the same time, a quantity of
ads, 3 yoke of Oxen in good order and well Bb
ke; Aone horse Waggon, and ono sett fine
rness, and a lot of Houschold Furniture, to-
ther with sutflry other articles, ‘Terms made
owratthe time of sale. To commonee 10] cou
lock, on Saturday 13th mst. at the Engle! pas
el. a JAS. KINZIE, Aue’r,

rire nye a a RON
FOUND. by,
x or about the 15th of October last, near] —

the Litule Calamink, » amall POCKET [
20K, containing some money, which the

mer can have by paying charges an proving
operty. JOHN MANN,
[uncertain: Dec. 10, 1833. oe wa | Sel]

Flo

6@ Barrels FLOUR
Pounds BACON, and
OREN STER. HOG
BW HOGAN & Co.
[uncertain: Chicago, Dee, 3, 1833, ' 2|On]

NEW BLACKSMITH
SHOP. Pre

PIERCE & ABBOTT,

yy ouL respectfully inform the inhabit-
ants of Chicago and the neighboring set-
ements, that they have commenced the above].
isiness in gaid town, nearly opposite the Chi-
ret Hotel, where they are ready to wait upon
I those who may have any ind of work to do
i their line of business, on the moat liberal
‘rma. They will manufacture Prarie Plouzhs,
9 order, and on the shortest notice. By atrict
ttention to business, they hope to receive @
hare of patronage,
Dec. 10, 1833, 3) Ta
Hie
Srayed, ¢
FROM the Door Prairie, about the first of
Nov. last, one large gray Horse, 17 hands
high, and nine years old. One Iron Gray
Mare, 15 1-2 hands high,
and 9 years old. One Mazina
Roan Horse, 4 years old, beighth'
otknown, Any person or per-
ons who will take them up and give informa-
ion where they may be jound, shall be amply

ewarded, HENRY CLYBURN.
0, 1833. 3

ner tenet penne
estar SALE, ON CONSIGNMENT,

z i
Hoosiers and Weolterines,
Behold Suckers! :!:!!

HE subscribers reapectfully tender to their}
above named friends, ia § to hia liberal
patrons, the Pottawatamies, their sincere thanks
for past favors, and informa them that they
have on hand at their Man Trap, one door north
of Mr. R. A. Kinzie’s Store, a constant supply
of freah Bread Cakes, Pastry, &c.; also, Lf-
QUORS, of every description, which they will
[uncertain: sell at reduced prices, and his friends can come | !!]
and get tired for nothing. 5
JOHN WELLMAKER * 92)

Chicaro, Dee. W189. 3}*

Town Ordinances.

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of
the town of Chicago, held at the house of
Dexter Graves, on the 4th day of Decem-
ber, 1833, the following Ordinances were
adopted, to wit: 4

F it ordained by the Board of Trustees of
the town of Chicago, That George W.
Snow,bo and he is hereby appointed Assessor &
Surveyor for said town, for the term of one year
froin this date, or until his successor alinll be
appointed and qualified to act, and that he be
allowed $3 00 per day for each days services
rendered ag such assessor and surveyor.

12. Bo it further Ordained by the Board o:
[uncertain: ‘Trustees of the town ot Chicago, That the Col- |;]
lector of said town be allowed ten per cent. on
the tax roll of eaid town for the Shania year.

13, Be it. further Ordained by the Board of
Trustees of the town of Chicago, That G, W.
Dole, Medore B, Beaubien, Edmund 8, Kimber
ly and John Miller, be appointed o Committee
to make a contract with son persion, for repair-
ing the Bridges on the North and South branch-
ea of the Chicago River in said town,

14. Be it further Ordained by the Roart of
Trustees of the town of Chicago, That John
Dean Caton, be and he is hereby appointed At
torney for the cor oration of said town, for and)
during the term of one year, or until his sceces-
[uncertain: sor shall be appointed and qualified to act. of |,]

15. Be it further Ordsined by the Board“of}

Trustees of the town of Chicago, Thateach and
every owner of occupant of any lot in ssid town,
fronting upon the Chicago River or_ its branch-
es, where the street runs to said river, be per-
mitted to occupy the vacant ground on said riv-
er, leaving eighly feet for a. street, for wharting
privileges only; And for the purpose of guaran-
teving thin right, each and every owner oF o0-
Jeupant, deairing such privilege, shall upon pay-

ing fifteen Mollars annually tn advance, to the
Treasurer of said Board, be entitled to a lease,
tor the teria of five years from the first day ot
Jonuary parte signed by the President t

of ani, ;
are De it farther Ordained by the Boast of
'Pruatees of the town of Chicago, thatdfan. pe.
gon who inay have leased from tho,.aid Sf. a
any lot or lots, and who may have erected up:
on such lot or lots of pou. ny wharf, shall,
at the expiration of we, desiro to elite
quish tg eaid board his pivilege, then the ea
board shall i sum of money
the t the said leanee,

the
be y

caen aa aforesaid; The appraisers to ap-
adipic the value of the work, and have no

ti 4,1
reference te On. J. % OWEN, Pres’

t.
Attest, Ingac Hanno, Clerk, Sw

we B ite Les
Two Buildings te fet,

ALL the fret day of June 1G,
imumediately.

Cw

ig Lo 4 ar

dik. oP

--- Column 6 ---

Look out for Trouble.
LL persona who have or shall be found
trespassing upon the fractional Bection
o. 29, in Township 39, north range 14 east,
tamonly called Hurdscrubble, shall be several.
proseouted by the subscriber, without any to-

. B. BLAUBIEN,
Cricage. Dee. 4, 1833.
3

BEWSTER, HOGAN & CO.
oreonreling & Commission

MERCHANTS,
Chicago-Illinoi».

ANER OF LACELLE AND SOUTH WATER-STREE
TAS now on hand, many of the ataple ap-
ticles requisite to the exigencice of use
d consumption: and intends in future to keep
general and full supply. A share of publio
tronage is respectfully solicited.
His stock comprises,
Dry Goods, Hardware,
Groceries, Crockery,

SOOTS & SHOES, HATS,
and a variety of miscellaneous articles.
To the citizons of Chicago, and the adjacent
untry, he tenders his acknowledgements for
at favors. Now on hand,
30 bbs. Superfine FLOUR.
400 galls. Smith's Ohio WHISKEY,
by the barrel.
Chicago, Dee. 3, 1833.

CHICAGO PRICES CURRENT,
Reported for the Democrat ly P. E. Pack.

CORRECTKD WEEKLY.
bb!

fine bb 60) a 0 00
fine 5 00
bbl
bbl 6 00
To. 66
[uncertain: гаій—]
bush Ou
68 00
Ib

salt bbl 8:00 prime
12 00 a 14 00

prime 10 00 a 10 50
10 ₺ 18

[uncertain: услівов 4b 18]
Bbl
lb
.. 10 13
Ib 9 11
busb 1 25 1 50
allow. 10
ides, dry Ib 10
wet 1b
andles, tallow 1b 16
ar Soap 18
eenwat
roceries-
Tea, imperie! 85
do young hyses lb 1
do souchong 76
[uncertain: or lam]

[uncertain: Hume]
brown Hav.

do St. Croix, 14 a 15
do Porto Rico,
Molassee 02
Rice 1b
Coffice, Ress'4 1b 1 7
Whiskey, bbl gsl
Dil, aperı gal 1 50
Domestica-
[uncertain: Brown shoetings 4-4 yd 1 3]

do whirtings 3-4 d 10
Bleseh'd do 3-4 d

do. sheetings 4-4 y 18
[uncertain: Calicoes, segoried yd 15]
Iron, Peru sasorted
Steel, cast
German 1b 18 21
Nails, wro't 17 18
cut 9
Muekrat skine P° 16
Raccoon do pa 25

PROSPECTUS

OF THE
[uncertain: ОШІОДНО ДУШОВАТ,]

A FOLITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS JOURNAL,
Poblished at Chicago, Cool co. IU.
-0+-
In appearing before the public as the conduc-
tor of a Journal of the above character, com-
mon custom seems to impose upon the Editor
the necessity of laying before the People, some
of those views and principles by which he ex-
pects to be governed in bis editorial career.
The Political complexion of the "Democrat"
cannot be mistaken, for it will be in fact, what
ite name implies. As the adroca e of popular
rights, and the adherent of the People's Gov-
ernment, the Democrat will sustain to the ut-
most of its ability, the Democracy of the State
and of the Union; believing as we do, that the
prominent and leading measures of the present
administration, are well calculated in their re-
suite to promote the welfare of the Nation, and
to secure to our Republican Government per-
manency and stability, we cannot hesitate to
give to it a firm, unitors and decided support:
sot while we thus frankly arow our own views.
we are not so selfish as to exclude from the
columns of the Democrat, such articles as may
be temperately written upon any subject that
the editor may deem vuitable for newapaper die-
eussion.
The important subject of the nest President.
cy will soon again agitate the public mind, and
although we in common with our fellow-cili-
zens, will doubtlers have an individual prefer-
once, yet, should it become necessary, we shall
not hesitate to sacrifice our own teeings
the altar of public good: consequently we
yield our support to the individual who may
designated for that important office, bf. the
Great Republican Party of the Union.
relation to our own polities, the editor can

but one motive, and that motive will be
dvancement of the mort important inler-
of the State. Alike Biranger to all the
ng politicians, ot course free from

personal predilec ne which meat editore
Bre apt to entertain for their political favorites;
consequently his support of, orposition to
the politicians of Illinois, must rely
ersed by.messures and not rest dby men.
The rapidly incressing importanet of Chica
in a commercial point of vice, calle aloud
the speedy commencement and completion
the long contemplated Canal or Rmi-Road
which is to connret the walers of Lake Mich
igan with those of the Illinois Rigge ва
this work is one of vast importance
to Chicago, balde See will
to the Great West, the edito
aelf, and also solieit» communication
more conrersant with the elect, 10
the people to their true intentit
to


===== SOURCE PDF PAGE 12 / ISSUE PAGE 4 =====

--- Column 1 ---

POETRY. __ wit

sccm aaaeo et coord

eeemenatan ~

WRITTEN FOR THE DEMOCHAAT. chat

HE A FRIEND? the

Yo he n friend? and will he sit and watch Iw
Yer thy lone head, when howls Adversity, he
darkened tempest, when around thee roots 8 i
Jospair, and not a ray of bight breaks in re

friends are false, 4,
will he be te
sid just

In thy distracted soul, when
And all but Heaven forsakes thee; nut
friend--firm—faithful--truc--sincere & 5
Unchar-ged--anmored in dark adversity, at
As when Joy shed her roses o’er thy bead? the

[uncertain: Is hoa friend? and will he hold your fame | HS]
Dearer than light or life—when Eavy points

Hor arrows, when Detractio. aims her darts,

[uncertain: And Slander, with her thousand tongues, con-|]

spires oF

To dim the “procious jewel” of your soul =

a frieud, still prove & shield,

Still will he be
disgrace and sbarie t

To ward away reproach,

Ye he a friend? and will be ley aside
The idle trappings of high-minded pride?
Still be the same in pride—in pomp—in power~-
In abject poverty—in wretchedness—
In guilt—in infamy—(we all do sin)
In all that man can suffor—Ileaven inflict—
And more than tongue can utter—will ha be
A friend unwavering —faithfal-—troe and just,
Through all the changes of this mortal stale?

1 at last thou steepest

Is he a friend? and wher
life with tee has

The “last, long sleep,” when
fled
F’en as a yapor, will he set angarot weep
O'er thy lone grave, and feel that his own heart
Is buried there, and pray to be released
From this cai pilgrimage, to dwell
With theo, through boundless immortality ?
SELIM.
Chicago, Dec. 8, 1633.

eee ene 9 nent
THE MOTHER'S FAREWELL TO DER
WEDDED DAUGHTER.
go dearest one, my selfish love
Shall never pale thy cheek =
“Wot e’'en a mother's fears for thee
Will { in sadness speak:
et how can L with coldness check
The burning tears that start?
Hast thou not turned from me to dw
Within another's heart?

ell

I think on earlier, brighter days,
When first my lip was prest

Upon thy baby brow, whilst thou
Lay helpless on my breas ;
In fancy still I sec thine eye “Ts
Uplitted to my face, ne call \
J hear thy lisping tones, gua mark ¢

With joy thy. shildish grace.

Fen then I knew it would be thus; ;
oe J thought e’en in that hour, I
Another would its perfume steal, :
When I had reared the flower; ;
And yet I will not breath a sigh— x
How can I dare repine? j
The sorrow that thy mother feele r
Was suffered onco by mine. F

[uncertain: A mother’s love !—-oh! thou know'st not | {]
How much of feeling -«»

In those sweet words: the hope
The daily strengthing ties : 1

t lives ere yet the infant draws
Its earliest vital breath,

And dies bet when the mother's heart
Chills in the grasp of death.

s, the fears,

Will he in whose fond arms thou sock’st
Thine all of earthly bliss,
E’en feel a love untiring, deep,
And free from sclfas this?
Ah, no! a jusband’s tenderness
Thy gentle heart may prove?
But never, never wilt thou racet
Again a mother's love.

My love for thee must ever bo
Fond as in years gone by,
While to the heart I shall be like
A dream of memory.
Dearest, farewell, may angel hoste
Their vigils o'er thee herp,
How can I speak that fearful word,
“Farewel!,”” and yet not weept
nn
FAREWELL TO MY HOME.
ain— deed Home.
Bweet home of my childhood, faroweil to the
walle,
“Farewell to thy shelter, farowell to thy halle,
But alt! can J mest wherever I roam,
A welcome like that which awaits me at home.
Home, home, sweet, swect home,

There's no place like home.

And tho’ in the land of strangers caress'd,

My home, my sweet home is first in my breast,

Oh! ‘how blizsful to fecl that wherover I roam,

The friends of my childhood will welcome me i
home.
‘s caetins bees sweet home.

Farewell thon, farewell to thee, spot of my
birth,
Farewell to the nearest and dearest on earth,
And if from thy walls to a palace I'd roam,
Jean never forget thee, my early loved home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home.

There's no place like home.
“MISCELLA!

CAPTAIN X——.

wid THB AUTHOR OF FRAITS OF TRAVEL,
Desmg my career of service I have met}!
with pumbirs of brava men, and a few cow-
CEs ap h oe eburage and fear display
thems arigus ways, and tan
ifcations ; but I never si with horaoe: nel

ee

slance of a thorough mixture of audacity with

--- Column 2 ---

roonery, of the Dasest faint-heartedness a

h presence of mind. ‘
On joining the regiment to. which I ex- lad
[uncertain: inged, for the sake of serving ™ Spain, | alr]
very first of my brother oflicers to whom
[uncertain: was presented by the major commanding, | te]
16 the captain of the company to which I}as
[uncertain: we attached. T never was 80 pre sossessed | tal]
[uncertain: favor of any one at first sight. He was.a|ch]
ie handsome young man, ot most elegant) dr
[uncertain: ness, full of rexdy wit, and apparently | sic]
arning with military” ardour, He was.a}in
[uncertain: adig ious fayourite in the regiment. Noth- | qu]
could exceed his attentions to me, except an
[uncertain: ains which be took to instill a portion of | fo!]
init into mine. ©
‘The first Hine 1 went into action with this ]a
[uncertain: Captain X was unfortu- | br]
[uncertain: ately shen il, just before our brigade was | ac]
rdeed to advance. He was obliged to let
‘ead on his company, and his regret made
deep impression on me. It appeared tojth
e that he sulfered more mental anguish than
alily, even though, I think, he specified
is being desperately ill in three places.
[uncertain: ‘After we had succeeded in driving the | t]]
[uncertain: nomy from a strong redoubt, the captain | s]
[uncertain: nined us, in great spirits and good health, all |i]
[uncertain: is spasms having given way to some violent | 1]
[uncertain: abitual remedy, which he told me was either | o]
‘kill or cure”? with him. He almost wept)
t finding that the fighting was all over.
[uncertain: We hiad several smart skirmishes s000 af- |e]
er this affair. Captain X——— was often in
[uncertain: he field, but [ never happened to see him | #]
through the smoke, excepton one occasion,
shen he showed great tact in the use of aly
pocketglass, with Which he constantly looked
[uncertain: put from bebind a tree or a mound of earth, |t]
[uncertain: and gave orders with great coolness to. me |¢]
[uncertain: and the other subalterns, to advance and re- |]]
treat, as occasion req uired.

[uncertain: In a storming business, when I was de-|;]

tached with a few men, 2 serious accident was
[uncertain: near happening to Captain X—~- Assoon |i]
as the place was taken, and 1 returned to the
regiment I received a pressing request to re
[uncertain: pair immediately to hima, as he feared he was |:]
at his last grasp—dreadfully wounded.
ran to bis quarters, in a house just under the
rampart, to which he had crawled ;. and
[uncertain: picked up the surgeon of the regiment on my |']
way, forcing him to abandon some other par}
tients to give his whole attention to my friend, L
[uncertain: We found him lying on a mattress, 2inost |]
insensible. '

[uncertain: “What has hapnene?d! where are you hit, |:]
my dear X- —--" said I. F

[uncertain: Hee i} sivs speak, but placed bis hand |i]
4 bis Side. j

‘Let me examine you, Captain X--—,
said the surgeon. “I have pot a minute to]
lose—we have many others wounded, offs
cers and men.”?

“Ah, my dear doctor, are you there 7” said
the sufferer, opening his eyes for the first
[uncertain: lime. How kind this is—but never mind |!]
me—hurry off to. my poor fellow-soldiers—
it is of little matter what becomes of me—I
[uncertain: am too far gone for help—I am a dying maa |,]
[uncertain: yet you need not exactly say ‘hilled? in|]
your report ; I don’t wish to shock my friends
too suddenly. Merely put me down ‘dan-
gerously wounded.”

“1 can put down nothing, Captain x——,
till I sce your wound,” said the surgeon, dri-
iy ype are you hit, sir?”

ae wy ’ as,1D Onan wer dear doctor. 1 real-
ly can’t exacily: specify —that is to say, Lean=
not say directly, that Lam absolutely hit—
but—but—”.

“But what, sir? Iam in a hurry—the
life of many a brave man is risked by this
delay—I cannot be trifled with,” exclaimed
the surgeon, with most unfeeling emphasis.

[uncertain: “My dear fellow,? resumed X——, “|]
am the last man in the world—the very

Th i
is own gallant ®}

sw en)
ew reairent,

my

last-—
i “What is your wound, Captain x—-,
if you are wounded at all??? peremptorily
asked the surgeon.

“Ab, never mind me, never mind me,”
replied the captain ; “leave me to my fate—
but spare my friends—break it gently to them
only say ‘severely wounded,’ and let -me
die 1?

“What is your sound, sir? Of what na-
[uncertain: tare, | ask you again ?””]

“Ht must, Lthink, have been a cannon shot
I feel my ‘side almost battered in—that is
to say, a spent shot.”

“Is there any mark ?

“Why, no—no—not decidedly a mark—
I cannot say there isa direct contusion: it
might have been, in fact, the wind of a twelve
pound shot, or something of that kind—you
may, in short, put me down (to save the feel-
ings of others, very dear to me) you may
put me down ‘slightly wounded.’ ”

5 hy rearly, Captain X———??

Saas ota word, not a word
friend—off to your duty—go, st shale
must put me down ‘slightly’ —whatever a
like, in short—something—anything—only
pray let my name be in the list of the woun-
ded! Notanother word-—-good by, good by,
my dear, my very dear doctor ?””
The doctor smiled, as bitterly as though
he hadjust swallowed 3 dose of rhubarb.—
He lef ae place ; and to my infinite surprise,
and that o'she whole army, I may say, the
London Gazet.e: which some weeks after
brought us the oficial account of the stor-
ming, showed us the unprecedented notifica-
tion, in the list of zasualties, of Captain X
being “very lightly” wounded. He
was the only indivilual of the regiment who
was not thoroughly ashamed of this, and who
did not feel the gctual cautery of the surgeon's
printed sarcassy,

I now began to know my man; and was
not much sirprised, at the night attack on a
fortress sods after, to hear myself called loud-
ly from th head of the company, (I occupy-
ing my ‘st in the rear, as we advanced in
subdivisions to the breach,) by Ned Flana-

[uncertain: gan, of Galway town, Capfain X——'s cov-|]
MFing secgeant.

--- Column 3 ---

“Mr, Hartigan, Mr. Hartigan! For) bro
[uncertain: od’s sake, your honour, come up quick, and | not]
Je the company,—the captain’s run, away of
ready.” i ma
Every on kos ws font sco
a? but no

Onte vee The village had been

Captain X-—- é
kes and retaken several times till a final

[uncertain: harge in which our regiment bore a part, | th]
[uncertain: rove the enemy out, and left us in posses=| w]
ion of the place. As we forded the river,

[uncertain: 1 close column of companies, Captain A——— | —]
[uncertain: uietly slipped behind, and took up a position | dc]
mong the rubbish of an old house which af-

[uncertain: srded him a fine view of the business. The | de]
[uncertain: alonel by whom we were that day led.on, | H]
[uncertain: “Scotchman, who was by hereditary right as | ¢)]
[uncertain: rave asa lion, turned round suddenly to the | st]
djutant, and asked him, a

“Where is Captain X———?””

“Hiding under that wall, Sir,” answered y
he adjutant, pointing to the reconnoilerer-

By G—, that’s too bad!” exclaimed ¢:
[uncertain: he indigoant colonel. *Gallu upto him— | s]
it him—-ocer him—and if he does not rjom \
fhe regiment instantly, cut him down on the /e
[uncertain: spot! Now, my brave lads, on them, steaG- | g]
ily and coolly—give them the steel, the steel,
my boys, and plenty of it!” added the col-\c
[uncertain: onel, turning to the regiment, and quite for-|t]
[uncertain: getting Captain x——. But the adjutant | c]
rode fiercely up to him, and hurriedly repeat-
ed the orders he had received. ‘

“Nay, nay, my good friend,” said X——
‘what's the use of being so confoundedly
[uncertain: hasty ? Just let me say a few words in ex~|¢]

lanation. May I die, my dear friand, if—”

Die and be hanged !? abruptly uttered
the adjutant, putling spurs to his horse, and
[uncertain: dashing back to his post, where he had searce- |,]
ly arrived, when a musket shot through both
his cheeks tumbled him to the ground, and
[uncertain: put an end to his gallant conduct for that day: |;]

'As soon as we were thoroughly in for it

at Salamancy, when the grape-shot hegaa to
pepper the bead of the column, and the men].
Cropped right and left, an officer of ours was}
[uncertain: seen to throw himself bodily into a dry ditch 5 |,]
and those who could not distinguish who ic],
was, thought we had another brive fellow
knocked over. But these who indentified
Captain X-——, were quite satisfied that he
[uncertain: was in sgic quarters. As soon as the busi- |,]
[uncertain: ress of that hard fought day was well and |.]
thoroughly done, we had ceased firing, and
were sharing after the broken enemy, when
[uncertain: an officer was dimly observed through the |,]
[uncertain: smoke that was clearing off, about fifty yards |.]
in front of our line, waving his hat with its
long streaming feather, in one hand, and),
flourishing his sword in the other, cheering
[uncertain: on the regiment, with shouts of most vocil> |.]
erous valour, the Arapilles echoing to his cry.
A roar of laughter burst along the ling, and],
became particularly loud when our company :
joined in it, for we scon recognized our re-
suscitated captain, and knew better than any
others how to appreciate his powers.

But his best, and, poor fellow, it was his
Jast exploit, occurred not long alter this, at
the seige of a place memorable for the deter-
mination of its defence, as well as the vigour
with which it was attacked and carried.

The approaches of the English army were
pushed on with a frightful. proximity to the

lace ; so much 80, that the guns from the

astions were fired point blank at individual

officers and men, who had the temerity to
TaiSe VUES Teed Laven the, senmahan andl

[uncertain: they were often hit from cannon of large cati-|]
bre, with as dead a certainty, as though the
moat unerring sharpshooters had levelled at)
them with rifles.

Our entire company was ordered down
ifrom the camp, on a working party, one fine
merning, out of our turn of duty, and not a

little to our surprise, to replace another which
had taken its place in the trenches during the
night, but was almost annihilated soon after
day brake, by the terrible cannonade from the
enemy’s works. Qne of our subs was killed
the day before, so that Captain X-—— had
but myself and the ensign, a gigantic Kerry-
man of about twenty years old, and six feet
five inches high, under his command. We
were under cover, a8 soon as we came with-
Jin range of the enemy’s guns; and so hot
was the fire, that not one of us felt disposed
to despise the captain’s example of keeping
as close as possible.

There were several small redoubts thrown
up along the trenches, from which elevations,

the officers on duty could keep a sharp eye

jon the menat work. I stept or rather crept
into one of these, to relieve the last surviving
officer of the company we replaced. He
was in the act of eating a crust of bread, which
his servant had procured him for breakfast ;
and as he was leaving his post to my occupa-
tion, he incautiously raised his head, to look
at the hostile ramparts, when it was carried
clean away by a twenty-four pound shot, and
the body knocked several yards out of tho
redoubt.

‘These were not pleasant occurrences for
any man’s comfort, but least of all sa to one
of Captain X———’s temperament. “I was
scarcely acttled in the redoubt, when I saw
him moving towards me along the trench,
stooping much lower than the utmost pru-
dence required; and he soon came crawling
into the redoubt, requesting me to change
places with him, and take the command of
the whole party, as he wished much to sketch
the bastions of the fortress: and he took out
hig sketch book and pencil for the purpose. —
T could not retyse his-request, a most unlucky
one for him, for bad he stayed where his du-
required, he had most probably. escaped

catastrophe which ensyed.

Thad not changed places with my captain
five minutes, and had just stepped up on the
ridge of the trench where the soldiers work-
ed, to look abont, as it was my duly from
time to time to do, when the general of the
[uncertain: day galloped up, attended by two aids-de-|]
[uncertain: camp, and a couple of orderly dragoons,—|]
He was one of the bravest of the brave; too

rc

--- Column 4 ---

[uncertain: as was’ proved by his death | °=]
it long after, on a distant service unworthy
[uncertain: his fine talents. He, too, us an Irish-|]
an, and knew our regiment well. ie ai,
[uncertain: Who commands thi party, Mr. Harti-|—]
an??? asked he-
J do, Sir, answered 1. :
WPEhers isa whole company here, isn’t) vo
here? Who isthe captain Where is he?”
were the rapid questions next put. it
“Tere is an entire company-—Captain XI
[uncertain: js the captain—he is an in that re-| 4]
[uncertain: bt, sir? were my immediate answers. — | ns]
slice wa that :cdoubt! May he be
[uncertain: loubly ——! What is he doing there ?—|]
[uncertain: Hark ye, sir,”? added he, addressing our fin-|_]
[uncertain: rer-post of an ensign, ‘you have lorg legs;|]
‘tep out then quickly—-go to” that redoubt,
and bring back Captain \———~ here instantly.
Steop, sir—stoop low—lower, I tell you, or
owll not havea head left on your shoulders.” I.
‘The intrepid Kerryman strode along, but
eared nothing for the general’s caution, and
[uncertain: scorned the shelter of gapions or fascines.— |j,]
[uncertain: When he came to the redoubt, he summon-|p)]
ed out the captain, repeating verbatim the j te
general’s speech.
What a cursed hot-headed fellow 2? ex-1 4)
claimed X——« Go back to him, my trus-
ty ensign, and tell him Tam takinga sketch) ~
[uncertain: of the first importance 5 Lam proving the en-|]
gineers to have been all wrong. Tell him,
the service wall absolutely suffer if he disturbs 5
me.” {tl
The ensign strode back again, and deliv-}
[uncertain: cred this message to the general, who was|}]
moving about busily, giving various orders},
around him.

“Taking a sketch? The engineers all
wrong! What an impudent scamp! Dye
hear me, sir—go back—tell your captain,
once again, that J order him to come here ;
and if he reluses, drag him neck and heels
[uncertain: out of the redoubt, and up to this spot.” |S]

[uncertain: “Tl tell you what, my fiend said X |)]
[uncertain: in reply-o-this second summons, and | 4]
hoping Ust while he temporised, the gener- Ih
a}‘would take himself “oi 1 tell yous!

what—”?

[uncertain: “Don't give yourself the trouvie to tell|!]

‘me any thing, Captain X-——, but come out
of this immediately, [tell you again,” said!
the ensign. At this instant his cap, which
was visible above the wall, was knocked off! t
his head, perforated by a cannon boll

“God bless me, what a narrow escape ! \
how very lucky that you were not three in-!¢
ches taller! exclaimed the captain. t

[uncertain: “Neyer mind whether Pm tall or little, |!]
[uncertain: Captain NX,” said the Kerryman, coolly |,]
clapping the shattered cap on his head again.
“['ll tell you what, the short and the long oft
it is—if you don’t come with me, quietly and!
by fair means, PN drag you out of it, dead or},
alive—so come along, [ advise you.” 1

x finding all resistance or subterfuge
to be vain, stood slowly up and followed the {*
Kerryman along the trench 3 mutterisg that i!
‘fa man’s life was not safe 9 minute on. ser-]j
[uncertain: vice with these infernal mad-brained Irish-|r]

[uncertain: men; but that with persons of common dis-|!]
cretion, one might go through a dozen cam- ;
paigns, as securely as though one had never
smelt powder.” - {ft

The enemy seeing a general officer so

[uncertain: close, sent their missiles towards us in doub-|,]
le quantities, One of the orderlies was liter!
ally cut across stith a shot, and an aid-de-\*
[uncertain: caMp’s horse’severely struck with the spliin-|"]
iter of a shell. Captain X. saw all this}:
‘as he came forward ; and by way of endive s
[uncertain: the business, and stopping the genera}l| ’]
[uncertain: mouth, he held forth the Bitte sketch book, | ‘]
and began some stammering sentence,

[uncertain: ‘Not a word, not a word, but listen to me, |1]
sir!’ said the the geners.. “Resume your!
[uncertain: ig here—do your dsiy —or? by heavens, |)]

[uncertain: ‘]} make you suck an example as never—" |,]

[uncertain: Here ‘he general was himselfstopped short, |:]
by the explosion of another shell directly
over the heads of the group—and the report)
was instantly followed by a terrified mixture
of groan and shriek from poor X-——-, who):
clasped both his hands across his breast, and]
with a dreadful expression of agony in his};
face, fell flat on his back, almost under the],
feet of the general’s horse. P

‘Good Goi, is it possible! cried the kind-'
hearted general, his rath at once appeased.—
[uncertain: ‘Who could have thought of his ever dying |.]
[uncertain: so fine a death! Well, he’s gone poor de-|!]
[uncertain: vil! He was at any rate a clever, a pleas-|]
[uncertain: ant fellow, and a gentleman—ay, every inch, |,]
but his Aeapt—but, he could not help thit ti
[uncertain: Here, soldiers, throw one ofthose great coats | -]
over thegbody of your captain, and bear vim :
to the camp. We could, after all, ‘have bet-
ter spared a better man.’ ” eeeds

With this quotation, the general coolly 1
[uncertain: trotted off with his aid-de-camp and_ orderly, |"]
[uncertain: in the midst of a shower of shot and shell.—|']
[uncertain: The ensign and myself were too much shock- |,]
[uncertain: ed by what had passed, to think of any thing |]]
for a minute of two, but the fate of our cap:
tain, and we slood gazing after the body, as),
[uncertain: it was borrie away, the limbs already stiffens |;]
ing before it was out.of sight.

hat was the astonishment of the gencral,
who thus pronounced Captain X's fin~}
eral oration, on riding back to the camp about},
an hour afterwards, to see the identical Cap- 1

Jain X—-== unharmed, unblushing, and up-/#
abashed, dressed, as was his went, better!
than any man in the army ; and cantering his!
little Arabian pony along the lines with a/1
feather streaming from his hat nearly as long) '
as the pony’s tail? And what was my sur- ;
[uncertain: prise when I met him the next morning ! |,]

But this could not Inst. A significant hot];
was that day conveyed to him from the high-
est authority. The following morning
brought him (he said) letters, requiring. his :
instant return to England. He set out at/e
[uncertain: onee, « The next Gazette announced his re-|]
signation ; and as Captain X——~ has been]?
ever ince an ex-captain, I have - nothing :
moreto gay of him ‘

J i

al

--- Column 5 ---

For Sale,

LOW PRICE OX WAGGON. En-
quire of C. H. CHAPMAN.
1
Nor. 26, 1850.
DEans for sale at his Barn, near the Fant
Branch of the Dupage, about 23 miles
est of this place,
15500 Bushels of good Corn.
le will sell in large or small quantities an it
1ay best suit purchasers. Also, can be had of
1 Sweet, in Chicago, at all times, any quantity
ot exceeding 300 bushels.
The shove will be sold on as good terme as
an be afforded. 2
Chicago, Dee. 3, 1833.
Storage, Forwarding and

COMMISSION BUSINESS.

B. JONES,
Spring, he will be ready to receive and forward
ill property that may be consigned to him.-
laving made arrangements with one of the most
mportant lines on the Erie Canal, he will be a-
ble to forward, property, to New-York on the
lowest terms.
He will also receive and sellany property that
may he entrusted to him, on Commussion, on
the most advantagious terms. 1
Chicago, Nov. 26, 1833.
Faken Up
TDY Harry Boardn an, living by the Dupage
B river in Cook County limois, on the 8th
inst. a small are supposed to be four years old,
ten hands high, the near hind foot white, silver
mane and tail, the mane hanging upon the right
side, partly scared off on the top, appraised by
Richard M. Sweet and Theron taraons to twen
Ly seven dollars, before Stephen Af. Salesbury

J.P. Attest-RICH'D. I. HAMILTON,

Clerli Com. Cl. Cooli co. Ill.
Taken Up
Williem See, at Walker's Grey in Cook

County Winois, a brown Horse suppored
to be 16 years old, 15 hands high, both hind feet
white, a brands perceivable: appraised by
Jessee Walkerand Timothy B. Clark, to twen-
ty dollars. Also a bay liorse six years oki, fil-
teen and a half hands high, back mane, tail and
legs, some white hairs on his forehead. Appais-
ed by the same persons to lilly five dollars before
James Walker a J. P.

AnESt-RUCH'D. I. HAMILTON,

Cierk: Com. Ct. Cool co. Ill.

Vilinge Ordinances.
E it Ordained by the Trustees of the Town

of Chicago, that the following shall be
the bounds included within the limits of the
Corporation of said town, to wit: Beginning at
the intersection of Jackson and Jeflerson streets,
thence north along snid last mentioned street to
Cool strect, in Wah-bon-seh, from thence to
the eastern extremity thercot, thence in a direct
line to Ohio street, in Kinzie's addition to the
town of Chicago, thence in a line eastwardly
to the Lake shore, thence southwardly with the
Lake shore to the northern United States' Pier,
thenee woetwardly along said pier to the ter-
mination thereof, thence to the channel of the
Clicago river, thence along the channel of said
river until it interses the castern boundary
line of the town of Chicago, as laid out by tire
Canal Commissioners, thence southwardly with
said line wafil it meets Jackson street, to the
place of beginning.
2. Boil further Ordabel, That the first street
in said town south of Washington-street, be
n uned Milison-street; the second one shall be
named Monroe-street; the third one shall be na-
sted Adams-strect; and the fourth one shall be
named Jackson-street.
3. Beit further Ordained, That from and after the
first day of December next, every owner of any
hog, sow or pig, found running at large in said
Lown, withoat having a ring in its nose or yoke
on its neck, shall he hahle to a fine of two doi-
lars for each and every offence, which may be
collected, on conviction of such offence, before
Hay Justice of the Peace in said town.
4. Se it further Ordainod, That from and after
the tenth day of December next, any person who
shall shoot off any fire arms of any description,
within' the limits of said town, shall be liable to
a fine of two dollars for each and every ollence,
to bo collected in the manner above specified.
5. Be it further Ordained, That from and after
the tenth day of December next, every person
who shall remove from either of the bridges in
said town, any plank or any pieco of timber be-
longing thereto, shall be lichle to a fine of five
dollars for each and every offence, to be collect-
ed in the manner above specified.
6. Be it further Orlained, That from and after
the tenth day of December next, it shall be un-
lawtil for any person within the limits of said
town, to pass any stove pipe attached to any
store, within the building. through the roof;
wooden partition, lathe and plaster partition, or
side of any wooden building, unless the same
be guarded by being passed through a stone
ware pipe, or be surrounded by brick, or be pass
od throngh a piece of tin or sheet iron, the out-
sides of which shall be at least six inches distant
from the pipe, and the pipe to be at least six
inches distant from any wood through which it
may pass. Every stove pipe shall be carried at
least eighteen inches above the roof, and beyond
the sides of'any building through which it pas-
seS. Any person failing to comply with the a-
bove ordinarice, shall be liable to a penalty of
five dollars, to be collected as abore specified.
And furthermore, if any person complined of
for the above offence, does not within forty-eight
hours from the first complaint, render the roof,
partition or side, of his, her or their building
safe, in the manner above specified, or by entire
tomoval of such pipe, such person shall on a
socond complaint, be liable to a penalty of five
dollars, to be collected as ahove.
7. Be it further Ordaited, That any person or
persons who shall after the tenth day of Decem-
her next, run any horse, mare gelding, mate or
uns, through any of the streets of said town,
shad be liable to a fine of two dollars for each
and every oflence, to be collected as above spe-
cified.
8. Be it further Ordained, That any pereon or
persons who shall be guilty of the indecent ex-
hibition of any stallion or stallions within the
limits of said town, from and after the tenth day
of Documber next, whall be liable to a fine of
threo dollars for each offence, to be collected a
above specified.
9. Be it further Ordained, That from and after
the tenth day of December next, it shall be un-
Inwful for any person or persons to encumber
the streets within the limite of the said town,
with any timber, stone, brick, boxes, or barrels,
or to put any other impediment, or impediment»
in said streets, under a penalty of one dollar for
sach and every offence, to lu collected as above
specitied.
10, Be it further Ordainal, That from and af
ter the tenth day of December next, it shall be
unlawful for any person to throw or put, or
cause to be thrown or put into the Chicago riv-
er, Within the limits of said town, any carcase
of any dead animal or animals, under a penalty
of three dollars for each and every offenee, to be
collected as above speciled.- or. o. 1833.

TH. J. V. OWEN, Pres't.
(Attest) ISAAC HARMON, Sec'y.

--- Column 6 ---

AN IMPROVED EDI OF 'T
NOVELISTS MAGAZINE
The. Cheapest Work cer offered to the Publi
may be confidently asserted,that in ng i
peroneae of literature, has 80 complete <
ifary~a revolution beon effected as in that:
which the Novel and Romanes belong. Qn} !
fow years have passed, since the perusal of (
order of literature was an acknowledyed poi
to the youthful mind—preventing the erie
of useful intelligonce, and corrupting the wt
fountains of morality. Not more traly hg
ver, did. this observation apply to the publes
tions of that day than the reverse doos to thes
ofthis. Tho great authorof Waverly—the it
erary Colossus of our Augustan age “beheld ty
enervating facility. with whichthose snus;
productions passed into favor and popular
and with an accurate knowledge of the mat
ness of the pan mind for a new and lofiier i
suit, opened a Golconda of intellectual rence
hitherto unknown, elevated the Novel from bon
bast, to truth and feeling, from the disrepute,
a vice to the dignity of a study ; thus givin i
the mind, not alone of a nation, but of the ps
ized universo, a brilliant and beneficial direetig,
which every day since has contributed to deyg
op. The inherent attractions of his public
tions, as well as the signal success which ¢
hausted edition after edition, soon induced a
ers to explore new regions of instruction fro
which they still return, enriching and enriched
History, with its immense and inexhanstisy
stores of incident, and custom, and characye
and romance, and reality, was, as it wore, fy
metieally sealed to: the multitude, so ponderea
were its volumes, and so drowsy its details, 1
now, however, is part and parcel of ouy aif
reading; and times, and those who made the;
eras, are brought before us with all the vividues
of reality. ‘T'o select from the works ofse
anthors, and present to the public only ench
are recommended by their inteie %. value, ha
been tho principal objen’ of the publishers ofthy
NOVELIST’S MAGAZINE, They have thy
far proceeded; and being convinced that me
cess in seal an under taking is dependent alos
upay the sanction of the public mind, they eng
gratulate themselves that their exertions to kee
pace with its demands and judgment have x
ecived the most oxtensive and encouraging a
probation.

Tho proprictors having concluded it advin
ble to substitute for the present size in whichth
Novelist’s Magazine is published, one more con
venient, and portablo, ag uniform with that o
the other Novels of the day, that work will o
the completion of the current volume be there
forth pablished in I2ina, mambers each to exp
tain 108° pages and every four numbers to for
avyolume, Thus, at the expiration of a yea
can six yolumes containing Gwo thousand fh
hundred and ninety-two pages of the very flor
er of Englieh literature be added to the Ihe
of its patrons.

Some intention of making the Novelist’s My
azine aweekly publication, with the ides th
the reader would feel moro interested in the f
quency of its appearance, has been entertiis
by the proprietors; but a more mature consi
ation, directed altogether by a desire to vond
the interest o1 its reading as uninterrupted
possible, haa convinced them of the saper
advantages of their present proposal. It ¥
not only confine the postage expense to

resent trifing a:nount, but will All up the we
Frequent hiatus with which weekly Novel pe
Hieations perplex the interested and theret
anxions reader. They alone who have feltt
chagrin attendant upon the abrupt or unoxpe
ed termination or rather suspension ef of th
literary pleasure can only appreciate We oe
er worth of those publications, which come h
“angel-visits’’ bringing, if a less frequent;
least a nore copious and porkaps complete m6
talbanguet. It may by some, be co sidered t
2 week! y work contains more matter than a!
maimonthly one—although this is not a genet
because, an erroneous impression, the prep!
tors solicit a comparison on that score, with:
other Novel publication of the day; and as tot
mannor they are determined shat it shalt bes
to anstain a high and ereditable competition.

The advantages peculiarly possessed by
proprietors of the Novelist's Magazine are
tived from a constant and direct intercoe
with the Londen publishers, by which they
ooive the Intest: British Novaladcasoon as
mitted to this country, and alse from the fa
ity which a conpnexin with the most extens
printing establishment in Philadelphia gh
them of re printing at the shortest notice a
work they may undertake. If, for exunp
they should wish to furnish ag part. of th
regular geries, anynew Enylish Novel, they ¢
do so atas early adateas any American be
gellor, so that distant sabseribers may rect
simultaneously with the bookseiler's ropul
cation in the large cities, and at but a indi
epee of postage, ete

neelecting words for thix publication, instr
tion, freshness and interest shall, as thoy hit
to have been, most carefully regarde’,
these cannot bo found in the amodon prest,
courso shall be had to, those sterling: prov
tione of a forier day, which, belky almost!
tirely out of print, are comparatively but
known and therofere the more valuable.

To families residing in the country, rw
from the Atlantic towns, this will’ be’s pat
ularly serviceable work, as supplying tit]
orary wanty on the best method that could
devised, and at an unprecedentedly Jow pr

Determined to wae ceery available ean
king the Novelist’s Mayazine interesting and ti
uatle to subscribers, and for the prevpose, of Hite
encouragement to American. Friars, (0 stim
their crcrtions, the publighers propose a premix

PO THE ADTHOR OF. THE. BEST! ROVES,
Upon a National Subject,which shall! be
sented on or belore the Ist of October, 12%.
This premium will be awarded by a Comm
tee, to be chosen for the purpose, attd’as it it
sumed the suceesstul. competitor - will ps
unusual merit, the publishers of the; Nocdit
Magazine, besides using it for that work, crm
to have it printed in handsome book foru, ©
responding to the BEST LONDON EDITi0%
of popular novels, Por every. thousand oh
of the work thus printed, which misy be 90°
tho author shall receive, in’ addition te tb
five Hundred Dollats, FIF'PY DOLLARS:
ve dollars for ovory hundred. * Rares
C-Those novels presented for the pro
which shall prove unsuccesatul, will be ree
to their respective authors, the pokes :
claiming no control over any but that to ¥H
the prize may be awarded, 2» *
All writings intended as competitors £1"
remium, must be conveyed free of postage
be addressed to the publishors, prior to the
of October, 18:5. “ is? 1
Tho price of tho Novelist’ s Magazine is F) "
DOLLARS PER ANNUM, PAYABLE
AD VANCE, and the whole quantity of readin
furninhed ina single year will bo equal to *
han filly volunies of the Englisn editions ;
‘paper upon which it wi be printed will be
‘the Anest quality, an¢ the type entirely ne*
The work will b: continued to bo iscued #
mimonthly, an’ 4 title-page will acco
every 4thonuwber, #0 thot the four will form
‘golume.of.fur hundred and thirty-two Lie ate
‘Aw ty publishers intended insting a 1m
‘punter of impressions, persons wishing 100%
‘serarare requested to do so withont 2

Oeade ddrossed to
Heo ee ALEXANDER & CO
