CHICAGO DEMOCRAT
Date: January 21, 1835
Volume: II
Issue number: 5
Publisher: J. Calhoun
Place of publication: Chicago, Illinois
Source: Jan1835-Jul1835.pdf, PDF pages 1–4
Physical layout: 4 newspaper pages; 3 columns per page
Transcription policy: Historical spelling and punctuation retained where readable. Genuine losses are marked [illegible], [missing/obscured], or [uncertain: ...].

CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
Where Liberty dwells, there is my Country.—FRANKLIN.
BY J. CALHOUN.
CHICAGO, ILL. JAN. 21, 1835.
VOL. II.—NO. 5.

[Source PDF page 1; newspaper page 1; column 1]

From the Vandalia Advocate.

The following preamble and resolutions were
introduced by Mr. Thomas, of Madison, which
passed the lower house,

Whereas, the United States Bank, was created for the purpose of aiding the General Government in carrying on her financial operations,
and furnishing facilities to the commercial enterprise of her citizens: and whereas, instead of
pursuing that course by which these objects
might be accomplished, this institution — has
sought to embarrass the whole monetary system
of the nation, and for selfish purposes has spread
ruin and insolvency throughout the commercial
community.

By directing its whole power and influence
against the General Government, and attempting
to embarrass and distract its administration ; by
entering the political arena, in order to effect its
end, diverting a considerable portion of its
means to subsidizing and corrupting the press;

By illegally and unjustifiably interfering with
the redemption of the stocks of the United States, by which it attempted to defeat the liquidation of the public debt, at the period contemplated by the General Government;

By illegally seizing the dividends due to the
General Government upon its Bank stock, almost without a pretext; by an unjustifiable and
improper conversion of the same to its own use;

By illegally detaining the possession of the books and papers relating to the pension agencies, thereby defeating payments of pensions
due to a large number of the veterans of the revolution, who had shed their blood in. the attainment of our liberties and independence;

By refusing to submit its books and papers to the examination of a committee of Congress, expressly appointed for such purpose, agreeably to the provisions of its charter, thereby setting at defiance the will of the nation solemnly expressed through its constituted authorities;
By greatly expanding its discounts, and when our citizens had been thus induced to overtrade, and without any sufficient cause curtailing these discounts, thereby bringing insolvency and distress upon the commercial community, with a view of coercing a re-charter from the Congress of the United States, regardless of every consideration but its own interests,
And whereas, such a train of abuses, violations of law and misapplications of its powers have not only justly destroyed the confidence of the great mass of community in its officers, but demonstrated beyond doubt, that an institution with such powers as the Bank of the United States endangers the stability of our republican institutions, and tends to undermine the foundations of our government.
And whereas our venerable Chief Magistrate has by his fearless and patriotic exposure of the corruption and malversations of a soulless institution, drawn down upon himself the undying enmity of its friends, and as a necessary consequence is now exposed to their attacks in all modes and from all quarters; and whereas the crisis thus presented by the affairs of the General Government not only justifies an exercise of that right on the part of the Legislatures of the several States of the Union, which they unquestionably possess, immediately representing the people, subject only to the restrictions imposed upon them by their respective constitutions, to express the sense of the people upon all great and interesting national subjects, but imperiously demands that right be exercised, and that a decisive expression of opinion by the several members of the National Confederacy, upon this and other important subjects, involving as they do most deeply, the happiness, honor and prosperity of the whole community should be given. Ayes 37, Nays 14.
1st. Therefore, Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, That the Bank of the United States by its abuses of its legitimate powers, by its malconduct and assumption of powers not delegated to it, has justly forfeited the confidence of the nation, transcended its chartered limits in its mode of conducting business, and therefore ought not in any shape to be re-chartered. Ayes 33, Nays 13.

[Source PDF page 1; newspaper page 1; column 2]

2d. Resolved, That the removal of the public deposites from the Bank of the United States, considered as well with regard to the time as the manner in which it was done, was an act done under an imperious sense of duty, called for by the occasion and in strict accordance with constitutional rights, and therefore has our decided approbation. Ayes 36, Nays 15.

3d. Resolved, That in our opinion the majority of the Senate of the U. States in refusing to permit the entry of the protest of the President of the U. States on its journal, in relation to a resolution passed by that body tending to impeach him for the removal of the public deposites, committed an act which, arbitrary and unjustifiable in itself, was an indignity offered to the nation in the person of her Chief Magistrate. Ayes 45, Nays 6.

4th. Resolved, That our Senators in Congress be instructed, and our Representatives requested, to oppose the re-charter of the United States' Bank, or the restoration of the deposites to that institution. Ayes 42, Nays 9.

5th. Resolved, That while we continue to repose undiminished confidence in Andrew Jackson, president of the U. States, and highly approve of the whole course of his administration, contributing in so eminent a degree to advance the honour and prosperity of the nation, we peculiarly approve of the course pointed out by him for the action of Congress, in relation to our claims upon France; a course called for by the ungenerous and unjust conduct of the French government, and which, characterized by moderation and forbearance, is well calculated to preserve unsullied our national honour, and at the same time to coerce a payment of claims so justly due, but so long and so unreasonably withheld, and which by peaceful means we cannot hope to obtain. Ayes 30, Nays 21.

6th. Resolved, That our delegation in Congress has our entire approbation for the support given by them to the present administration of our National Government. Ayes 44, Nays 7.

7th. Resolved, That the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolutions to the President of the United States, and to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress. Ayes 45, Nays 3.

Gor. Ewise's description of our State glowing as it may be conridered by those who have
not visited it is trae in every particular. Extensive distruets of out State, which one year
since, were trackless prairies, are now ercepied by industrious and enterprising citizens.
*The magic wand of industry, enterprise and
Inlent, is werking wonders in our land."-
Sangamon Journal.
MICHIGAN AND ILLINOIS RAIL-RoaD.— We this
week lay before mur readers the Canal Memorial, which embodies in a very condensed form,
many statistical focts, favorable to a water communication to connect the navigation of Lake
Michigan, with that of the Illinois river, in preterence to a Rail-road.
Although this memorial contains much useful
information, it falls far short of exhausting the
subject; and we give it a place in our columns
by way of introdueing the subject, and purpose
following it up with thorough investigation of the
probable cost and comparative degree of useful.
ness of each.
The day has gone by for the abetract discus.
sion of the utility of public works: for, we might
withroval propriety discuss at large, the benefits
of e vilization over that of a savage. It only
maine, then, to decide on the apecies of impreten ent, and the mode of construction.
We extremely regret that time end space will
not enable te to say more this week; but we
shall endeavor, as cariy as practicable, to examine the subject with all the candor and fair.
ness which its importance deniands, and lay be.

[Source PDF page 1; newspaper page 1; column 3]

fore the public such evidences of the propriety
of construeting a Canal over a Railroad in the
present instance, as will satisfy every candid
enquirer.
[ Galenian. J
THE CANAL.
As you approach the Illinois River, and between it and the Mississippi, timber is more a-
bandant, and the prairies less extensive--region»
to which there seems to be a press of emigration
at this time, unexampled in the settlement of
any of the States.
And beiween the navigable
waters of the Illinois, and Lake Michigan, near
she route of the long contemplated Canal, mul-
Litudes are locating, in anticipation of the benefits of the great work. But I fear their just hopes
will be disappointed. Our Legialature seems
inclined to charter a Company for its construction, instead of prosecuting it as a State measure.
This, I think, would be very bad policy.
A Company would be beyand all control of the
State, further than boand by the most liberal
construction of its charter.
The parsimony and
hberality of such Companies, would prevent
the work from being well, or speedily done, and
when done, oppressive tolls and exactions might
be in the way of its benefitting the people of
this Stale, as it ought. The Flock might not be
taken, and the charter forleited, which would
cause a delay in its completion, contrary to the
wants and wishes of the people. And if done
in that way, we should foster a sunliess monied
corporation, which could not be dissolved, wishout a violation of vested right-a corporation
whuch, from its wealth, influence, and great
sourees, arising from the prefits of the Canah
right, at some future day, control the Stato
itself. If the Geners! Government has any occasion of alarm, for its sets, er purity.
from
the interference of the Bank, should not linois
hesitate, in chartering a Company, whose powers muzy be so much greater in proportion to ita
Never was a more splendid project contemplated, as the map of North America, a slight
knowledge of the country, and a perusal of our
worthy Gevernor's Message, will convince any
nie.
And never was a state belter able to untertake and complete such a work, than Illinois
in at this time.
The General Government has
Jonated for that purpose upwards of 300,000 a-
res of land, on its route, for ils construction:
and further aid might be obtained if necessary.
The needfial amount of money might be loated,
by the State with a premium, at a low rate of
interest, and for a period of time, that would
mable the Canal to redeem its debt.
Nations
have, without doubt, been improverished and op:
pressed by great works of mere ostentation and
iseles-nes». But what nation, or State has
ever been injuredby works of this character?
Has New-York, Peunsylvania, Ohio, or Indiana T
You laugh at the simplicity of my question, and
well you might. Their answer in written
in a
blaze of glory acroes our hemisphere.
Shall it
be. That Illinois, which has shown herself in the
held worth of her origin, and of the great family
to which she belongs, to torego a little responsibility, shall yield to a corporation of her own
creation, that proad eminence in wealth and
her to which her matural situation catitics
1 hope net—l still hope when you visit
oR a few years hence, you will hareit in your
power, to brighten the countenarices of your
inends here, with a landable glow of satistaction,
by stating your agreeable passage on our Canal.
Far different would be our emotiona on tho
mention of the Neo York Company's Canal from
Chiengo to Ottawa.
[Ill. Champion.]
ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL.
The importance of a communicaton between
the Mississippi and the Lakes, has long been a
abject of deep solicitude to many of our citizens.
The reputation of the State is at stake, and if
nothing is dose at this session of the
General
Astmbly, Illinois will become a bye-word a-
mong the States. And although we consider
the construction of a canal from the Illinois river to Chicago, as nuch a palionel wotk as the
break-water at the mouth of the Deleware, yet
it congress will not authotize its construction,
the State n ust put ite shoulder to it in ernest.
This is anage of improvement, rod it cannot
be, that Illinois will stand with folden sins, and
see Chio and Juciana rushing forward in the ca.

[missing/obscured: several words are covered by a photographer's pointer in the middle of this column]

[Source PDF page 2; newspaper page 2; column 1]

no efforts.—Vandalia Advocate.

On the 6th inst. Mr. Dawson from the committee on Internal Improvements, made a report in favor of the contemplated Illinois and Michigan canal, accompanied by a bill providing for its construction, which was twice read, and copies of the report and 162 of the bill ordered to be printed.

The senate have a committee engaged upon the same subject, whose report may be expected in the course of this week. We understand that these reports will agree in one point, that is, the absolute necessity of prosecuting the work vigorously.—ibid.

Extract of a letter to the Editor of the People's Champion, from our representative, John Hamlin, esq. as published in that paper, dated

Vandalia, Jan. 3, [uncertain: 1835].

The Bank bill has been introduced in the Senate. I cannot go for it unless something of importance in the way of our Northern interests can be accomplished by so doing: it provides for the establishment of a State Bank, with 9 branches, to be owned and controled exclusively by the State. A Bill will be reported on Monday morning by the Committee on Internal Improvements, for the constructing the Illinois and Michigan Canal. The plan I do not approve of, but I am fearful it is all that can be done at this session: it provides that there shall be commissioners appointed, to go on and sell the lands and town property, commence and finish the work as far as the money will go. If this plan is adopted, our hopes will be these—a sufficient amount can now be raised to progress with the work until we get our new Representation, and after that we shall be able to authorize a loan and likely receive further aid from Government. I am satisfied of this fact, that when the work is once effectually commenced we shall not suffer it to stop.

LAKE ONTARIO MARINE INTELLIGENCE.

Oswego, 24th Sept. 1834.

Arrived at this port within a few days past, the schooners Detroit, Huron, and Winnebago, belonging to Messrs. Bronson and Crocker, from the ports of Chicago in Illinois, Michigan city in Indiana, and St. Joseph in Michigan, on lake Michigan, where these schooners discharged about 2,400 barrels of Onondaga Salt, returning to Lake Erie in ballast, where they took on board cargoes of Ohio wheat for the Oswego mills, destined, when floured, for the New York market. These, although not the first voyages between our own and the western states, are almost the commencement of a regular trade between these distant points, a trade destined to grow up in a brief period to a vast amount.

The future extent of this trade is not easily conceived by those who are not familiar with the topography of the lake countries, or are unable to estimate the facilities of ship navigation to a larger and better country than those which border the Baltic or the Euxine, a large portion of which is already prepared by the fire of the hunter for the plough of the farmer—a country destined to exchange its pork, peltries, wheat, lard, &c. for the salt, merchandise and manufactures of the east to an amount which will astonish both parties.

Eight thousand barrels of Onondaga salt were taken to Chicago last year at an average price of three dollars per barrel. Sixteen thousand barrels is the estimated supply for the present season, at $2 50 per barrel, and when return cargoes of wheat can be produced in place of Spanish dollars, which we are now compelled to bring back, the wheat may be freighted to Oswego for one shilling per bushel, reducing the freight of salt from one dollar, its present price, to fifty cents per barrel of five bushels. Salt will then be delivered to the teamsters in Illinois and Indiana at two dollars per barrel, and then the demand will double again the first year, say 32,000 barrels for Chicago alone.

Not only will New England be supplied with bread from the upper lake counties, but old England too, in large quantities, provided she will adopt the judicious policy which her best statesmen are urging, and which it is believed necessity will soon compel them to do viz., to take their bread from us at a regular and reasonable duty.

Under these circumstances, we challenge the most sanguine to estimate if they can, the extent of the trade which will flow from the west through our channels, provided a liberal policy shall render them sufficiently capacious.

[Source PDF page 2; newspaper page 2; column 2]

We invite the attention of our readers to the article below from the pen of Benj. Mills, editor of the Galena Advertiser. We publish it to show the people the course which that gentleman is taking upon this question.

The course of our remarks upon the different topics embraced in Governor Duncan's Inaugural Speech, was interrupted last week by the publication of the President's Message. And we should not now return to them, but for the purpose of laying before the public, such opinions as we entertain upon the remaining subject treated of in that document: the communication between Lake Michigan and the navigable waters of the Illinois River. We are well aware that any inquiry to be induced by them will come too late to effect any valuable purpose, and prudence might impose silence. But we have never known her, and we care not at this time of life to make her acquaintance.

Gov. Duncan recommends the construction of a Steam Boat Canal between those points, and unequivocally expresses his preference of a canal over a rail-way. It is our fortune to differ with him upon both points and we will endeavor to give to our readers, who are deeply concerned in this work, the reasons upon which our opinion rests—a matter which Gov. Duncan has unfortunately neglected. We have always felt, in common with our fellow citizens of Illinois, a deep interest in this subject, and upon more than one occasion have afforded proofs of our sincerity. The great wish and object of the people is, to see some work completed. They therefore, desire that some practicable work should be attempted. In the present embarrassments of our treasury, if the improvement is to be undertaken by the State, it must not exceed our means: and in full remembrance of the reproach incurred by the legislature, four years since, by contracting a loan of $100,000, it is hardly to be expected that a loan will be resorted to.

But a Steam Boat Canal—what advantages does it possess? Gov. Duncan says, that “by using the lake as a feeder to this canal, a large body of water will be turned into the Illinois River, which will improve its navigation by increasing its current, and probably render its shores more healthy.” Had he forgotten that a canal is an artificial level? and that, therefore, any perceptible current would not be allowed therein. Any such current as would be required to “improve the navigation of the Illinois River by the removal sand bars and deepening its channel” would be utterly destructive of a canal, and if it failed to effect this, would not of course “render its shores more healthy.” The first reason for the construction of such a canal, indeed, the lights of science and experiment are, at all events, with malice prepense to be neglected, would seem to us to be, that it might save trans-shipment. But the most that can be effected under the most favorable circumstances will be to render the canal navigable for such boats as sail on the Illinois River. The additional expense of 18 or 20,000,000, will accomplish this,—but having passed up the Illinois and through the canal, what can these boats do on Lake Michigan! Why if Zephyrus were to whisper on it with his softest breath, the craft could not live while you were reading its name on the wheel house.

The idea of saving trans-shipment is entirely exploded. One more reason only remains, by which the Gov. has attempted to sustain this project—“that it puts it in the power of every farmer to carry his own produce to market, which renders him independent of that monopoly which always must control the transportation on railroads.” Monopoly! Monopoly! This is ever the cry, when an attempt is made to incorporate a company for any object whatever, in this quarter of the world. But Gov. Duncan has forgotten that there can be no monopoly without an incorporation, and in reference to this affair, if an incorporation be created, the monopoly will be the same with a canal as with a rail-road—and if no incorporation be created, why then both are equally under the direction of the State and there can be no monopoly.

We admit most freely, that our opinions are in favor of a rail way, and regret that we cannot have sufficient space to exhibit them fairly. We will, however, furnish, “without comment,” a schedule of the reasons by which we have been conducted to this conclusion.—1st, the expense of its construction will be less by three fourths. This statement is made upon the authority of the report of an able engineer, who explored every inch of the ground and based his calculations upon actual inspection, and is not arrived at, like the one expressed in the message—by a process of reasoning.

[Source PDF page 2; newspaper page 2; column 3]

[missing/obscured: Systematic line-start and line-end clipping prevents a responsible verbatim recovery of this column. It contains the continuation of the rail-way comparison (reasons 2d through 7th), followed by the CHICAGO DEMOCRAT editorial dated Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1835. The unresolved prose is omitted here rather than released as raw OCR fragments.]

[Source PDF page 3; newspaper page 3; column 1]

On the contemplated Canal, we have occupied a great portion of our paper with the opinions of our contemporaries throughout the State. The revolution in public sentiment upon this subject has been great and rapid. It is but a few months since we were almost if not entirely alone in advocating a Canal to be constructed by the State. Now nearly every paper in the State goes with us. B. Mills, Esq. our would be representative in Congress, is the only editor in the state who advocates a rail-road monopoly; he confesses his want of prudence in the matter.

A Bill providing for the construction of the Canal by the State has been twice read in the House of Representatives, we are unable to state how far the bill goes or what are its particular provisions, but understand that it provides for the sale of the Canal Lands and expenditure of the proceeds.

It appears to us that these lands should all be sold at once, at auction, unless the Commissioners should be satisfied as the sale progressed that the lands were not bringing their value. By selling them all at once a large number of buyers would be brought together, and competition would raise their price. It is also our opinion that a credit should be allowed on the sales of one, two, three and four years, this would increase the competition by increasing the number of buyers, and give more of our own citizens, an opportunity of competing with capitalists. If the money should be wanted the state could borrow it at 4 or 5 per cent interest, while it could receive 10 per ct. on the amount of sales. These are merely crude suggestions. We give them for what they are worth. It is probably too late for them to have any weight, if they are intrinsically entitled to any. But we will say that some measures ought to be taken to dispose at once of the canal lands in this town and vicinity.

Since writing the above, we have received the very able report of Mr. Forquer, from the committee on Internal Improvements to the Senate upon the Illinois and Michigan Canal. We have barely time to say that the subject is examined with ability. It recommends that a sum sufficient to complete the entire work, be loaned upon the credit of the state, and that a portion of the town lots and canal lands be sold from time to time to pay the interest. We differ from the report only, if at all, in the opinion that the whole of the town lots at least should be sold at once and without delay. For, in the language of the Report, with an ample guarantee that the entire canal “would certainly and speedily be done, there can be no doubt that the canal property would almost immediately appreciate to very nearly its maximum value.” Hence the state would lose comparatively nothing by selling at once on a credit. The property must be occupied whether sold now or not, and if not sold now, we doubt whether any plan for their sale at a future time can be devised, which will not be productive of injustice to the state or individuals, and in some cases lead to serious difficulties. Indeed, we doubt whether, at a future time, when these lots or lands should be all occupied, under all the circumstances of the case, they will bring as much as at the present. The estimate in the report of the value of the lots not sold, in this place, is by far too low. The 318 lots are estimated at $101,400. We have no doubt they would sell to-day for two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Since the publication of our last paper, the direct mail route from this place to Galena has been discontinued, and our mail to that place goes via. Peoria. This is not as it should be. The direct route to Galena is an important one. It passes through several large settlements, in a section of country rapidly filling up with emigrants. Most if not all these emigrants have left friends in the different sections from whence they came, with whom it is desirable that they should have a ready means of communication. A good portion of this section, and some of our most flourishing settlements are now wholly deprived of a mail, and are thirty miles from mail privileges. We cannot but believe that the Post Office Department was not fully aware of the character of this route, and that when its importance is fully presented for its consideration, a mail will again be ordered upon it.

While upon this subject, it is gratifying to notice the fact that our eastern mail has been increased from one trip a week to a trip every other day. Judging the future by the past, we may safely look forward to one year as the period within which the interests of our flourishing town will demand and receive a daily mail to and from the eastern cities.

[Source PDF page 3; newspaper page 3; column 2]

They have our thanks. There does not appear to have been much done by that body as yet of general interest.

Our thanks are also due to Messrs. Doty and Martin, of the Legislative Council of Michigan, for copies of the message of Acting Governor Mason, to that body; and also, several important documents, which we shall look into when we have time.

At a large and respectable meeting of the inhabitants of Naper's Settlement, convened at the store of Geo. W. Laird, on the 10th January, 1835, to adopt such measures as would ensure the speedy re-establishment of the mail route leading from Chicago to Galena, via. Naper's Settlement and Dixon's Ferry: the object of the meeting was explained, and Joseph Naper called to the chair, and Nathan Allen, Jr. appointed Secretary.

The following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:—

Whereas the mail route leading from Chicago to Galena, via. Naper's Settlement and Dixon's Ferry, has been discontinued, and has caused great and unavoidable inconvenience to a very numerous and highly respectable portion of the inhabitants in this vicinity, and westward, leaving them without any of the usual facilities of communication, and subjecting them to the necessity of taking their letters and papers from the Post Office at Chicago, at considerable trouble and expense;

And whereas, this route is certainly an important one, both to the Government and the people, from the fact that there is no other route north of Ottawa and Peoria, therefore supplying more than two thousand inhabitants; its discontinuation seems rather the result of mistake or misrepresentation, than any lack of means or want of accommodation in the department, therefore

Resolved, Inasmuch as the Post Office department was established for the accommodation of every American citizen, without regard to favoritism or sectional interest, that this route ought to be re-established from its importance, and affording to this infant and growing settlement, those privileges that are not withheld from other portions of the Union, populous or deserving of favors from the General Government.

Resolved, That every inhabitant in the northern part of Illinois, ought to feel interested in the re-establishment of the mail route leading from Chicago to Galena, via. Naper's Settlement and Dixon's Ferry.

Resolved, that we conceive the subject of sufficient importance to warrant the exercise of every lawful means to accomplish this desired object.

Resolved, That the trouble and expense attending the procuring letters and papers from the Chicago Post Office, renders it nearly equivalent to their not receiving them at all.

Resolved, That we feel the importance of this mail route, and the necessity of strongly petitioning the department for its speedy restoration.

Resolved, That we consider any person who has been instrumental in procuring its discontinuance, as guilty of a breach of public trust, and should if discovered be held up to public contempt for sacrificing the claims of community to private malice or sectional interest.

Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting be signed by the chairman and secretary, and a copy be sent to the Post Master General.

JOSEPH NAPER, Chairman.
NATHAN ALLEN, Jr., Secretary.

Chicago Harbor, Illinois.—The operations of constructing an artificial harbor at this place, on Lake Michigan, have progressed in a satisfactory manner, considering the late period at which the appropriation became available, and the difficulties, in a country just emerging from a state of wilderness, to be overcome in procuring the necessary supplies, materials and workmen. The great importance of this improvement, to the increasing commerce of the west, is already felt; one hundred and eighty vessels having, between the opening of navigation and the 30th November last, arrived and discharged their cargoes at this point, to be distributed along the shores of the Mississippi, through the valley of the Illinois. That this improvement is destined to form an essential link in the most important thoroughfare between the lakes and Mississippi country, there can be no manner of doubt, and, for that reason, I would recommend that it be perfected as rapidly as circumstances will permit.—Public Documents.

[Source PDF page 3; newspaper page 3; column 3]

[missing/obscured: This column contains a municipal meeting notice, commercial notices, and two Post Office letter lists. Narrow internal name-list subcolumns are interleaved in the surviving OCR, and the photographer's pointer covers part of the printed list. Individual entries that cannot be assigned to their printed order are omitted rather than guessed. Directly verified names include H. CROCKER, Clerk; HARMON, LOOMIS & CO.; ABISSINIA DAVIS; DAVID CARVER; KINZIE & HALL; LEVI F. ARNOLD, P.M.; and THOMAS GALAHER, P.M.]

[missing/obscured: several words are covered by a photographer's pointer in this column]

[Source PDF page 4; newspaper page 4; column 1]

[missing/obscured: Dense Post Office letter-list subcolumns are physically interleaved by the scan/crop and cannot be restored to a responsible name order from the available OCR. Unsupported name fragments and non-source glyphs have been removed.]

[missing/obscured: a small portion at the lower edge is covered by the photographer's hand]

[Source PDF page 4; newspaper page 4; column 2]

[missing/obscured: This column continues the Post Office letter list and several short notices. The narrow internal subcolumns are interleaved in the available OCR; uncertain isolated name and advertisement fragments have been removed rather than silently recombined.]

[Source PDF page 4; newspaper page 4; column 3]

[missing/obscured: The left edge of this legal-notice and advertisement column is clipped throughout, removing the beginnings of most lines. The surviving fragments do not support a responsible continuous transcription and have been replaced with this bounded loss marker.]

