CHICAGO DEMOCRAT—EXTRA
Date: March 25, 1835
Issue designation: Extra
Publisher: J. Calhoun
Place of publication: Chicago, Illinois
Source: Jan1835-Jul1835.pdf, PDF pages 5–8
Physical layout: Extra pages 1–3 have 3 columns; page 4 is a single-column subscription prospectus
Association note: Page 8 certainly belongs with the March 25 Extra. The page-7 editorial explicitly directs readers to the “Subscription List” placed on “the last page of our paper”; page 8 is that Subscription List, headed “Chicago Democrat, Volume 2, 1835,” signed J. Calhoun and dated “Chicago, March, 1835.” No separate issue number is printed.
Transcription policy: Historical spelling and punctuation retained where readable. Genuine losses are marked [illegible], [missing/obscured], or [uncertain: ...].

[Source PDF page 5; newspaper page 1; column 1]

CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.—EXTRA.
CHICAGO, MARCH 25, 1835.

AN ACT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly, That the Governor of this State be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to negotiate a loan, solely on the pledge of the canal lands and tolls, as hereinafter provided, for the purpose of aiding, in connection with such other means as may be hereafter received from the government of the United States, in the construction of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, a sum of money not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars, which shall be required to be paid at such times, by instalments, as the same may be needed in the progress of the said work, as near as the same can be estimated.

Sec. 2. The Governor shall cause to be constituted certificates of stock for the said loan, to be called the “Illinois and Michigan Canal Stock,” signed by the Auditor and countersigned by the Treasurer, bearing an interest not exceeding five per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, at Vandalia, or at some bank in the city of New York, or either, as may be agreed upon, and reimbursable at the pleasure of the State, at any time after the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty.

Sec. 3. The Governor shall take and use all proper means and measures for the transferring of the said stock.

Sec. 4. It shall be deemed a good execution of the said power to borrow, for the Governor to cause the said certificates of stock, when created, to be sold: Provided, That the said stock shall not, in any case, be sold for less than its par value.

Sec. 5. It shall be the duty of the Governor to cause the said moneys, from time to time, when paid or advanced, to be deposited in some safe bank or banks, until wanted for use, at the best interest that can be obtained for it, to be drawn out as hereinafter provided, taking therefor the proper securities for the safe keeping of the same.

Sec. 6. The money thus loaned, the premiums arising from the sale of any stock thus created, the proceeds of the canal lands and town lots, and all of the moneys in any way arising from the contemplated canal, shall constitute the canal fund, and shall be used for canal purposes, and for no other whatever, until the said canal shall have been completed: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent appropriations from being made, out of the said fund, for the semi-annual payment of the interest upon the canal stock herein authorized to be created; and the Governor is hereby authorized to cause the said interest to be paid out of the said fund.

Sec. 7. That the revenue arising from the “Illinois and Michigan Canal,” and from the lands granted, or that may hereafter be granted to the State of Illinois by the congress of the United States, for the construction of the said canal, and the nett tolls thereof, are hereby pledged for the payment of the interest accruing on the stock that may be created in pursuance of this act, and for the reimbursement of the principal of the same.

Sec. 8. The Governor of the State, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint five practical, skillful persons to constitute a board, to be known under the style and description of “The Board of Commissioners of the Illinois and Michigan Canal,” and he shall designate one of such commissioners to be President thereof, one to be Treasurer, and one to be Acting Commissioner; and the Governor shall fill such vacancies as may occur in the board during the recess of the legislature.

Sec. 9. The Governor shall have power to remove from office any canal commissioner at his discretion.

Sec. 10. The acting commissioner shall be allowed a salary of twelve hundred dollars per annum, and the rest of the board shall each be allowed a compensation of three dollars per day while necessarily employed in the business of the canal.

[Source PDF page 5; newspaper page 1; column 2]

Sec. 11. The said board of commissioners is hereby constituted a body politic and corporate, with full power and authority, in their corporate name, to contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, defend and be defended, plead and be impleaded, in all the matters and things relating to them as canal commissioners; and they shall have and use a common seal of such device as the Governor may direct.

Sec. 12. The board shall appoint a secretary, whose duty it shall be to keep a true record of all of their proceedings. They shall hold quarterly meetings, and special meetings whenever any two of them, or the acting commissioner, may desire it, and any three of them shall constitute a quorum to do business.

Sec. 13. Before entering upon the duties of their office, each of the said commissioners shall make oath or affirmation faithfully, honestly and truly to execute and discharge all the duties and obligations herein imposed upon them, and each of them, as canal commissioners; and they shall severally give bonds to the Governor in the sum of ten thousand dollars, with sufficient sureties, for the faithful discharge of the duties imposed upon them by this act: Provided, That the Governor may, at any time, require additional bonds of the said treasurer, whenever he may think that the safety of the funds require it.

Sec. 14. Whenever all or any part of the money upon any contract shall become due, it shall be the duty of the treasurer to draw his warrant or check therefor, in favor of the contractor, upon the bank or banks in which the canal fund shall have been deposited; which warrant or check, shall be countersigned by the acting commissioner, and shall be under the seal of the board.

Sec. 15. It shall be the duty of the acting commissioner to obtain from the cashier of the bank or banks, in which the said fund shall have been deposited, a quarterly report, exhibiting a true account of all moneys received in deposite on account of the canal fund, and paid out of the said fund during the previous quarter, which report shall be laid before the board of canal commissioners, and within twenty days thereafter, shall be examined by the said board, and compared with the accounts of the treasurer, and an entry shall be made in the books of the said board, that the said examination has been made by them, and that the two amounts correspond, if such be the case, and each commis- sioner present shall sign his name to the record of such examination.

Sec. 16. It shall be the duty of the acting commissioner, 1st: To make, under the direction of the board, all necessary contracts for the supply of materials, and the performance of labor.

2d: To inquire into the official conduct of the agents, clerks, superintendents, and all subordinate officers, and to receive and hear all complaints that may be preferred against them.

3d: To enforce the faithful execution, by all persons concerned, of the duties and obligations imposed upon them by this act.

4th: To examine, frequently and carefully, into the state of the canal, and the progress of the works thereon.

5th: To have the immediate care and superintendence of the canal and all matters relating thereto.

Sec. 17. The said canal shall not be less than forty-five feet wide at the surface, thirty feet at the base, and of sufficient depth to insure a navigation of at least four feet, to be suitable for ordinary canal boat navigation, to be supplied with water from Lake Michigan and such other sources as the canal commissioners may think proper, and to be constructed in the manner best calculated to promote the permanent interest of the country.

Sec. 18. They shall take efficient and proper measures for the immediate construction of the said canal; shall put such parts of it, as they may deem proper, under contract, as herein provided, and shall have the general care and superintendence thereof.

Sec. 19. They shall inspect and examine into the accounts, books, state of the treasury, and all of the proceedings of the treasurer, and of the acting commissioner.

Sec. 20. They shall furnish the acting commissioner with all proper means and facilities that may be necessary to enable him to discharge the duties herein imposed upon him.

Sec. 21. They shall have full power and authority, in their good judgment, to do, in relation to the construction and completion of the said canal, all things not otherwise herein expressly provided for.

[Source PDF page 5; newspaper page 1; column 3]

Sec. 22. It shall be lawful for them to enter upon and use any lands, waters, streams, and materials of any description, necessary for the prosecution of the works contemplated by this act.

Sec. 23. They may employ such, and so many agents, engineers, surveyors, draftsmen, and other persons, as they may judge necessary to enable them to discharge their duties as commissioners, and may pay such compensation as they shall judge reasonable to each person so employed.

Sec. 24. Public notice shall be given of the time and place at which proposals will be received for entering into contracts; which notice shall be previously published, for at least six weeks, in the newspaper printed at Chicago, and in such other papers, either in this State or elsewhere, as may be deemed proper.

Sec. 25. Proposals for contracts shall be sealed, and shall be for a sum definite and certain, as to the price to be paid or received, and shall be accompanied with good and sufficient security for the faithful performance of such contract.

Sec. 26. The commissioners shall not enter into any contract for the supply of materials, or the performance of labor, without previously taking satisfactory security for the faithful performance of such contract, according to its terms.

Sec. 27. The board may, if they think the interest of the State requires it, retain one half the amount due upon any contract, until the contract shall have been completed, at which time all arrears shall be paid up; and in no case shall more than three-fourths of the amount due upon any contract, be paid, until the work shall have been completed.

Sec. 28. All contracts concerning the contemplated canal, shall be made in writing, under the seal of the board; and of each contract, three copies shall be executed by the parties, one of which shall be retained by the board, and one shall be immediately forwarded to the Auditor of Public Accounts, and by him filed in his office.

Sec. 29. All materials procured, or partially procured, under a contract with the commissioners, shall be exempt from execution; but it shall be the duty of the commissioners to pay the money due for such materials, to the judgment creditor of the contractor, under whose execution such materials might have been sold, upon his producing to them due proof that his execution would have so attached, and such payment shall be held a valid payment on the contract.

Sec. 30. In case of the death of any canal contractor, who shall, at the time of his decease, be indebted to any laborers for work done on the canal, it shall be lawful for the board, if they think proper, to pay such laborers out of any money that may be due to the deceased contractor, and the receipt of such laborers shall be a good voucher in offset to the sum due to the deceased contractor from the board, on the final settlement between them and his executors and administrators: Provided, That the said person shall first obtain a judgment against the administrator of such deceased contractor, and produce a certificate from the court that the said judgment was rendered for work done on the canal, or for materials furnished therefor, and for no other cause.

Sec. 31. The board shall, from time to time, make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of this State, in respect to the persons employed about the canal, injury done to the said canal or locks, and the management and navigation of the same, and impose such forfeitures of money for the breach of such rules and regulations, as they may judge reasonable; but no forfeiture imposed, shall, for a single offence, exceed the sum of fifty dollars, over and above the amount of actual damage done.

Sec. 32. They shall cause a sufficient number of such rules and regulations to be posted up for public inspection, and shall transmit a copy of them, from time to time, to the Governor, as they may be made in their next quarterly and annual reports.

[missing/obscured: a small portion at the lower edge is covered by the photographer's hand]

[Source PDF page 6; newspaper page 2; column 1]

Sec. 33. All rules, regulations, and forfeitures established by them as aforesaid, shall be filed in the office of the Auditor, and a copy thereof certified by him, under his hand and seal of office, shall be received in all courts of law as due proof that such rules, regulations, and forfeitures, were by them established.

Sec. 34. The commissioners shall examine the whole canal route, and select such places thereon as may be eligible for town sites, and cause the same to be laid off into town lots, and they shall cause the canal lands, in or near Chicago, suitable therefor, to be laid off into town lots.

Sec. 35. They may, from time to time, proceed to sell such portions of the town lots, on the canal route, as may be necessary to pay the interest that may be due upon the loan herein authorized to be created, deducting therefrom the premiums that may arise upon the sale of canal stock: Provided, That none of the said canal lots shall be sold for the next five years, unless the Governor and a majority of the “The Board of Canal Commissioners” shall decide that it will be for the interest of the canal to do so; and if they shall determine not to sell, then the Governor shall cause the interest on the said loan, as it becomes due, to be paid out of the canal fund, as required in the sixth section of this act.

Sec. 36. Public notice of all sales of canal lots or lands, shall be given in such newspapers, (not less than three in number,) either in this, or in other States, as the board may think best, at least six weeks prior to any sale.

Sec. 37. All lots shall be appraised prior to the sale thereof, and shall be sold at public auction for cash; but they shall not, in any case, be sold for less than the appraised value thereof.

Sec. 38. In all sales of canal lots, the secretary and treasurer shall act as register and receiver, and shall be governed by the same rules that now govern the registers and re- ceivers in the United States land offices in this State, except as is herein provided.

Sec. 39. It shall be the duty of the treasurer, upon the payment of the purchase money, to grant to the purchaser or purchasers, a certificate containing a description of the land or lots purchased, and the price for which the same was sold, and shall forward a duplicate of such certificates to the Auditor of the State, who shall record the same; and the persons holding such certificate, shall, upon presenting the same to the Governor, receive a patent for the land described therein, signed by the Governor, and countersigned by the Secretary of State, with the seal of the State affixed thereto.

Sec. 40. All moneys paid to the treasurer for the purchase of any canal lands or lots, shall be by him immediately deposited in some bank, under the direction of the Governor, for the payment of the interest on the canal loan.

Sec. 41. None of the board of canal commissioners shall be allowed to purchase any of the canal lands or lots herein authorized to be sold, nor shall they, or either of them, in any way, either directly or indirectly, be concerned in any such purchase, or have any manner of interest therein, and all sales in which the said commissioners, or any of them, shall be in any way interested, shall be absolutely null and void, the purchase money shall be forfeited, and the land shall revert to the canal fund. Any commissioner guilty of a violation of the provisions of this section, shall be deemed to have perpetrated a fraud, and upon indictment and conviction thereof, in any court having competent jurisdiction, shall be punished by forfeiture of his office, and fined in a sum not less than one thousand, nor more than five thousand dollars: Provided, That a prosecution for such offence shall be commenced within ten years after the commission of the same.

Sec. 42. If any two or more persons shall combine themselves together for the purpose of lessening competition at the sale of any of the canal lands or lots, or if they shall agree or have any understanding among themselves, that they will not bid upon one another at any such sale, for the purpose of obtaining the said canal lands or lots, at a low price, the same shall be deemed a fraud, and any person or persons convicted thereof, in any court having competent jurisdiction, shall be fined in a sum not less than one hundred, nor more than one thousand dollars; one moiety thereof to the use of the person informing, and the other moiety to the canal fund; and any patent issued for any lands or lots purchased as aforesaid, shall be absolutely null and void, the money paid therefor shall be forfeited, and the lands or lots so purchased, shall revert to the canal fund; and it is hereby declared to be the duty of the State’s Attorney to prosecute for all such offences: Provided, That all such prosecutions shall be commenced within ten years after the commission of the offence.

[Source PDF page 6; newspaper page 2; column 2]

Sec. 43. The board of commissioners shall, quarterly, viz: On the first Monday of March, June, September, and December, in each year, make a minute and and particular report to the Governor, which report shall set forth, in a plain and intelligible manner, all of their acts and doings in relation to the said canal, and the canal lands and lots, all the money received and expended, the work done, and the price allowed for the various kinds of work, the contracts made, with whom made, and the security given, the number of engineers, draftsmen, clerks, and agents of every description by them employed, and the amount of compensation paid to each, the progress of the canal, their contemplated plans for the next three months, with an estimate of the probable amount of money that will be required to be expended for canal purposes during that time; together with such other matters and things as they may see fit to add; and also, the amount, time, and rate of any loan made by virtue of this act, which report, or the outlines thereof, the Governor shall cause to be published.

Sec. 44. They shall, annually, on the first Monday of December, make a report to the Governor, setting forth all their acts and doings in relation to the canal, and canal lands and lots, during the previous year, in like manner as is required of them in their quarterly reports, containing such statements and estimates for the year, as their quarterly reports do for the quarter.

Approved, Feb. 10, 1835.

JAMES SEMPLE, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
A. M. JENKINS, Speaker of the Senate.
APPROVED, February 10, 1835.
JOSEPH DUNCAN.

[missing/obscured: The federal land-sale proclamation begins here, but its dense township, range, and section list is interleaved with the adjacent canal-act text in the surviving crop. The corrupted legal descriptions have been removed rather than silently reconstructed.]

[Source PDF page 6; newspaper page 2; column 3]

[missing/obscured: This column continues the federal land-sale proclamation with a dense township, range, and section list. The available OCR interleaves fragments from the adjacent canal-act column and corrupts numerous section figures. Because those legal land descriptions cannot be responsibly reconstructed from the surviving line fragments, the raw list has been removed rather than silently normalized.]

[Source PDF page 7; newspaper page 3; column 1]

[missing/obscured: The close of the federal land-sale proclamation and the opening abstract of the Chicago and Vincennes Rail-Road charter are interleaved with adjacent-column fragments throughout this crop. The proclamation is signed ANDREW JACKSON. The unresolved township figures and charter prose are omitted rather than released as word salad.]

[Source PDF page 7; newspaper page 3; column 2]

[missing/obscured: This column continues the Chicago and Vincennes Rail-Road charter abstract. Systematic interleaving and edge loss prevent a responsible continuous reading of its director-election, route-selection, property, and stock provisions. Unsupported fragments have been removed.]

[Source PDF page 7; newspaper page 3; column 3]

[missing/obscured: The opening lines continue sections 14 and 15 of the rail-road charter abstract, but the crop removes their initial letters.]

CHICAGO DEMOCRAT.
Chicago, Wednesday, March 25, 1835.

Having received a copy of the Canal Bill, passed by the Legislature of this state, and knowing the anxiety which is felt by our friends here as well as abroad, to learn what has been done, we lay it before our readers in this shape. Our limits will not permit us to go into an examination of its details. We do not doubt, however, that capitalists will consider the security ample for the $500,000 loan authorized, and that the money will be obtained, and the work commenced forthwith.

We have also placed in our sheet the advertisement of the Public lands, to be sold at this place the 15th of June next, and as much of the charter of the Chicago and Vincennes Rail-Road Company, as we can find room for. The charter of this company is liberal, and investments in the stock would unquestionably be profitable.

Chicago Harbor.—We learn from a friend at Washington that $32,800 has been appropriated by Congress towards the completion of our harbor.

We invite the attention of our friends to the “Subscription List” which we have placed on the last page of our paper.

[missing/obscured: The following political editorial about proposed new Chicago newspapers is clipped at the left edge throughout. Its raw fragments have been removed rather than reconstructed without sufficient support.]

APPOINTMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT.
With the advice and consent of the Senate.

JAMES WHITLOCK, Register of the Land Office at Chicago, Illinois, from the day of date.
E. D. TAYLOR, Receiver of Public Moneys at Chicago, from this date.
JAMES STEPHENSON, Receiver of Public Moneys at Galena, Illinois, from this date.
SAMUEL McROBERTS, Receiver of Public Moneys at Danville, Illinois, from the 2d instant, when his commission expired.

[missing/obscured: the lower-right corner is covered by the photographer's hand]

[Source PDF page 8; Extra page 4; single-column subscription prospectus]

SUBSCRIPTION LIST
OF THE
CHICAGO DEMOCRAT,
VOLUME 2, 1835.

In asking for the CHICAGO DEMOCRAT a more extended patronage and circulation, the publisher deems it proper to state the causes which have led to its temporary suspension. It is generally known that the paper used in this section is manufactured in the older States, and that it cannot be procured without great expense while navigation on the Lakes is closed. Early in the fall we had made arrangements for our supply, but winter set in, before it was received. We have since endeavored to obtain paper from various places, but have been unsuccessful. At St. Louis, there was no surplus, and the commencement of a number of newspapers in Michigan, had consumed the little at Detroit. We have thus been in the hope and expectation of obtaining paper, first from one place then from the other, until so recently, and so near the opening of navigation, that it was thought not expedient to take a personal journey to Buffalo, or Cleveland, the nearest places at which it could be obtained, for that purpose; as by the expense of the journey, and land carriage of the paper for such a distance, we could anticipate the arrival of a supply by water but a week or two at most. We trust that this explanation may prove satisfactory to our friends, and the community generally. A supply of paper will be received by the first vessels from Cleveland, and also from Buffalo, and the paper will be re-commenced immediately on their arrival, and such arrangements have been made and will be made, as will prevent the possibility of such a suspension hereafter.

With a view to render the paper more interesting and useful, arrangements have been made by which the editorial department is confided to a gentleman who is believed to be every way qualified for its duties. And the publisher pledges himself that no exertion or expense, justified by the patronage received, shall be spared, to render the paper worthy of the support of the public, and such, in all respects, as the increasing intelligence and importance of this town and vicinity demand.

The political character of the paper will be unchanged. It will give a firm and manly support to the “measures and men” of the present administration—to the candidate for the next Presidency who may be selected by the National Convention—and generally, to the principles and measures of the Democratic party of the Nation and of the State. It will advocate the preferment of men possessing a decided and clearly defined political character, and endeavor to expose that set of politicians who solicit office on the profession of one class of political principles, and practice a different in discharge of its duties. It will advocate such an association or organization by the people, primarily, as will give effect to their opinions upon all important measures affecting their interests, and to their wishes in the selection of candidates for office, and thus secure to them that influence over men and events, which they of right ought to have. It is not designed that the paper shall contain any thing personally uncourteous or disrespectful to individuals entertaining different political sentiments; nor that its political character, especially while without competition, shall be offensive to such who will exercise an ordinary degree of candor and liberality.

We shall endeavor to keep a faithful Register of passing events;—and our best endeavors will be directed to elevate the moral and intellectual character of the citizens of our Town and State.—To disseminate useful information to the farmer, the mechanic, the merchant and the laborer.—To the emigrant and those in the Atlantic States, who think of leaving the scenes of their childhood, to seek a resting place and a home on the fertile lands of the Great West. It is intended that the Democrat shall not only be interesting and useful as a weekly visitor, but worthy of preservation for future reference and use.

With this statement of our intentions and arrangements, we submit our claims to the public, and ask of the kindness of our friends some little interest in our behalf. If we have not thus far come up to their hopes and expectations, it should be considered that the publication of our paper was a new undertaking here, and the past but the first year of its existence.

CHICAGO, MARCH, 1835.                                      J. CALHOUN.

TERMS.

Town subscribers who have their papers delivered by the Carrier $3.
Mail subscribers, and those who receive their papers at the office, $2 50.
Fifty Cents in addition will be charged in all cases where payment is not made IN ADVANCE. Papers will not in any instance be sent to places where we have no authorized Agent, unless the subscription is accompanied by the money.
Any person procuring six mail subscribers, and forwarding the money, will be entitled to a seventh copy gratis.

SUBSCRIBER'S NAMES. | No. OF COPIES. | RESIDENCE.
